---
layout     : post
title      : Aegir
tags       : [drupalsouth, drupal, drush, export, features, modules]
categories : [drupalsouth]
location   : Wellington, New Zealand
excerpt    : |
  Dave Hall gave a session about Aegir, the hosting and deployment solution
  for Drupla. 
---

Dave Hall IT consultant, F/OSS hacker, manage Drupal sites. One client has
2100 sites (hosting 2150 Drupal sites). [Aegir][aegir] is the solution to
having lots of sites.

[aegir]: http://groups.drupal.org/aegir-hosting-system

Enterprisey, automated, infrastructure, global, etc.

Several components:

* Hosting (the GUI front-end)
* Eldir theme (for the Hosting frontend)
* Provision (which interacts with Drush)
* Hostmaster install profile
* Drush with Drush make


Important things: Sites, platforms, services (Apache, MySQL, DNS, etc.),
Servers, system administrator.

A platform is: Drupal core, some modules from contrib, themes, features,
install profile all packaged together form a platform. Examples are pressflow,
open atrium, managing news and, to a lesser extend, Acquia Drupal.

(The big client uses a 3K LOC install profile to generate a site based on
external data that gets pulled in.)

Experimental modules (when they say experimental, they mean it!).

Things you can manage:

* Client : let clients provision new sites
* Database server : supports multiple backends
* Platform : supports multiple platforms
* Site : 
* Web Server : supports multiple web server boxes (all running Apache)

Can upgrade 2100 sites in around 24 hours (for security updates, etc.)

Downsides
---------

Started with 0.2-alpha or -beta because he had an enormous number of site to
deploy. The developers are helpful and tell you which version to use. Also claim docs are good: don't believe them.

