---
---

[OpenParallel][]

HipHop is a PHP to C++ compiler developed by Facebook to improve the
throughput and performance of their front-end servers. It's not the first
project to do something similar (`phc`), but is the most current.

HipHop makes several compromises in implementing PHP, dropping several
language features. It is not a drop-in replacement of the Zend engine. No PHP
5.3+ support.

Using HipHop can result in 50-70% resource utilisation savings; increases
performance (of many operations); suddenly threading is possible. HipHop has
two modes: `hphpi` for interactive, development use; and the compiler proper.

Picked Wordpress as a project to play with HipHop (not the only people working
on this; patchset maintained on GitHub, some of them upstream). One of the
primary changes is removing `eval()`.

Comparing Wordpress running on the standard LAMP stack in a VM on a two core
machine. Using [Tsung][], it's pretty easy to push LAMP into the ground. 

HipHop outperformed the LAMP stack in the sense that it continued to be
responsive.

[TBB][] is an open source Intel C++ library which aims to make multi-threaded
programming simpler and more reliable by implementing patterns, etc. as
templates, etc. It was already used in HipHop for memory management and
synchronisation.

First aim was to pick patterns from TBB to add to HipHop's implementation of
PHP which can be used to improve the performance and/or throughput of
Wordpress. Adding the selected `parallel_for` construct into HipHop was pretty
simple; modifying Wordpress to make use of `parallel_for` was OK. Performance
improved even more over the stock HipHop; uses 100-200 MB less RAM, dropped
from 7-8 to 5-6 minutes for the full run.

Considerable different between the stock HipHop version and the 

Questions
---------

Why bother testing it against a configuration known to be broken?

Did you do any stats in terms of the requests, rather than time?

[Tsung]: http://tsung.erlang-projects.org/
[OpenParallel]: http://openparallel.com/
[TBB]: http://www.threadingbuildingblocks.org/
