---
layout      : post
title       : Internet Address Exhaustion Keynote
categories  : [lca2011]
tags        : [network, tcpip]
excerpt     : |
  Keynote 
---

*Internet Address Exhaustion*, Geoff Huston, APNIC. Vint Cerf is a
professional optimist, Geoff isn't.

In the '70s there were two technologies that started the movement toward
openness: UNIX and packet switching. Packet switching revolutionised our ideas
of communication, 'til then: posting articles and voice conversations. Packet
switching brought a revolutionary change over voice communications: we stopped
caring about time, just delivery.

The DARPA contract to Berkeley to write an open source implementation of
TCP/IP. It's now the global network technology monoculture, having entirely
replaced the vendor systems (if you used IBM, you were *all* IBM).

Open technologies are: accessible, competitively neutral, functionally
extensible, commercially exploitable. The success of IP was not due to its
technical merits, but its openness.

So what? Being "open" is one thing but *staying* "open" is the challenge. And
it's the main challenge facing the Internet.

Openness requires constant attention
------------------------------------

Useful technologies are rarely static: technologies evolve, uses change,
exploitation models change. We need to continuously define the line between
the competitive interests and private ownership and the public good.

Challenges: net neutrality; next generation networks; mobility and mobile
service evolution; triple/quad-play schemes. Trying to make sure that every
application (even our own) continues to work on the Internet of tomorrow.

If you don't have open addressing, you can't be open. If you can't get open
addresses then you can't join the system.

In 2009 5% of the total available IPv4 address were allocated, 2010 beat that.
AU: 9.6 million IP addresses last year. There are 7 blocks of `/8` left.

We knew there'd be a problem (somewhere between 1998 and 2040) so we came up
with IPv6 and planned deployments so they'd be done by the time IPv4 addresses
were exhausted. The theory was that network engineers would act rationally and
deploy it in time.

Clear that IANA will be exhausted in February 2011 and the first RIR in July
2012. When Google look at their stats, 0.3% of people are using IPv6.

The old "deploy IPv6 before it happens" plan now has 7 months. 1.8 billion
users, with multiple devices. In the next 200 days. And the network will suck.

NATs
----

We have no idea what will happen. To sustain > 250M new connections each year:
using NAT will let *some* stuff work, but when ISPs put NAT in bad things
happen. A lot of NAT traversal will stop working behind multiple layers of
NAT. Every NAT is different (standardising NATs was beneath the dignity of the
IETF).

With carrier grade NAT, you can't use all the ports you want to load the 500
elements on this web page. You need a lot more than 1 port per customer on
your NAT, but the number of ports on the public NAT address is very, very
small. NATs just will not work.

Transition
----------

IPv6 was supposed to be backward compatible, but it isn't *really* on the
wire. So we need a dual stack transition, either with dual stacks on the
hosts, or via protocol translating proxies.

The problems with the dual stack plan is that no-one has done it, that it'll
take years and you *still* need IPv4 addresses for everything in the mean
time. 

When you're running a NAT for IPv4, you're running *nothing* with IPv6: the
network is open.

Whether we're using IPv4 NATs or transitioning to IPv6 we'll still need IPv4
addresses. And we have no idea how to accomplish this, but it's probably going
to be some abomination of a market system (which won't be open, accessible,
efficient, etc.)

Some ideas seen so far: 

- encourage NATs - which we know 
- larger private use address pool
- Rationing 
- Reclamation
- Deregulate transfers
- Regulate transfers

We've given up everything and become a total monoculture and we have
absolutely no idea of how to keep it working.

Will we ever come back to an open network?

Why are we wedged on this?
==========================

The losers of the open Internet has been the carriers. And now they are being
asked to foot the bill for the transition. They lost everything when we
switched to the open Internet and are uninterested in spending more of their
money making the changes. All openness has done is tear their control, and
profits, to pieces.

The incumbents -- Google, Amazon, etc. -- aren't interested in helping to make
it possible for challengers: higher barriers to entry are great, as far as
they are concerned.

Customers will not pay more for ISPs to make the change. Short-term trumps
long-term.

It's cheap and easy to build walled gardens -- look at the '80s -- based on
IPv4 but it's expensive and hard to build an open Internet on IPv6.

Keeping an open Internet
========================

We need to alter our environment to favour the rapid deployment of IPv6. We
need to make the Googles and Apples and ISPs and *everyone* realise that an
open Internet based on IPv6 is in all our interests.

Questions
=========

Even if we could free up the allocated-unadvertised pool, that's only going to
buy us a couple of years.

A lack of vision (the Internet is about keyboards) and understanding
(penetration into China was unthinkable two decades ago), no-one saw it
coming.


