---
layout      : post
categories  : [lca2011]
---

Sendmail is an old programme that has survived, changed the world, didn't have
corporate support.

Started at 1980 at UC Berkeley with no official support (working on INGRES),
built purely as a matter of necessity.

Commodity: 16-bit machine, < 1 MIPS; << 1GB, refrigerator sized; memory < 1MB;
networks <= 56 Kbps; relational databases were a research novelty; mobile
phones were brick-sized; cameras used film.

Now: 64-bit, > 56 MIPs; 2TB; memory > 100GB; megabit - ~160Gb; phones are tiny
and ubiquitous; camera are in the phone.

Original mail system had mail UUCP in, `/bin/mail` (delivering to spools),
UUCP outgoing.

Ernie CoVAX was main machine for CS, more terminals than ports (with a patch
panel in the mail room; pull someone else out when you need to work); store
and forward email system called BerkNET.

INGRES got a ARPAnet connection and everyone wanted to use it; everyone wanted
to use it and they had to free up two ports for the connection. What they
really wanted was email, so write a system to send, receive and deliver mail
between systems and networks.

Design principles
-----------------

Accept that one programmer is finite. Don't redesign user agents. Don't
redesign the local mail store. Make deliver mail adapt to the world, not the
other way around.

Design decisions and evolution
==============================

Everything here are things that have been criticised at one point or another.
Some were right, some wrong, some were right and are wrong now.

Overly General
--------------

Sendmail can do anything, good or bad, which was necessary when the
specifications were changing from day to day. Sometimes it is easier to build
a tool, rather than a solution.

Rewriting Rules
---------------

Seemed like overkill, even at the time, but couldn't see a better solution.
Using tabs as the "active" character was the stupidest thing he ever did. In
retrospect, the concept was right -- regular expressions with tokens instead
of characters -- but the syntax and control flow could have been better.

Message Munging
---------------

Was absolutely essential at the time, given interoperability challenges. Still
heavily used, but not required in many circumstances. In retrospect, it should
have a "pass through" mode.

Configuration Syntax
--------------------

Lines typed by the first character, flat with no nesting, single character
values. In retrospect, it's ugly but not fundamentally flawed.

Embedding SMTP into core
------------------------

Complex, but required.

Queuing
-------

Two files per message: headers and body. Requires scanning a lot of files.
Plain text format made debugging simpler. It was right at the time, but is
probably the wrong choice now (keep the envelope in a database, which didn't
exist then).

Using m4
--------

Syntax is painful at times, but needed a macro facility and there's no point
in inventing the wheel and the only other choice was CPP. The main problem
with m4 was the `dnl`s which aren't even necessary. In retrospect, some tool
was required, but perhaps M4 wasn't that tool

Extending vs Changing feature set
---------------------------------

Something he got wrong!

Example: masquerading. Did it wrong the first time but instead of fixing the
feature, extended it so as not breaking existing sites. This was wrong. This,
and other similar situations, are a large part of the reason that it's hard to
configure.

Robustness
----------

Postel's Law: "be liberal in what you accept and conservative in what you
generate."

The problem is that there is no incentive to fix broken software. This was
correct then (everything was broken!) but should have changed at some point.
Still seems unclear today.

What would I do differently today?
==================================

Fix problems as early as possible: tabs, v7 mailbox format, bogus features.

Use more modern tools (up to a point).

Use privilege separation, but perhaps not as far as Postfix.

Create a string abstraction (love C, but string handling is the mutant
cousin).

Separate mailbox names from UNIX user ids.

Cleaner configuration file.

What would I do the same today?
===============================

Use C as the implementation language. (OO languages are more of a mistake than
M4.)

Bite things off in small(ish) chunks. (Agile programming is a cop out in lots
of circumstances.)

`syslog`

Rewriting rules but without the accursed tab character.

Not rely too heavily on outside tools.
