---
layout      : post
title       : Keynote presentation by Mark Pesce
categories  : [lca2011]
tags        : []
excerpt     : |
  Mark Pesce's keynote presentation.
---

First OS was riscus(?) and first language was BASIC.

Principle one: Distribute everything. Small pieces loosely joined.

Principle two: Transport independence. Networks are centralised and controlled
by the powers the be, for true resilience we need to be independent of the
communication media.

Principle three: Secure everything. It's not our job to make ourselves and our
systems easier to surveil. The cloud is convenient, but 

Principle four: Open everything. If you can't examine the source code, how can
you trust it? "Transparency is the new objectivity." Unless a system is
transparent, it is inherently suspect. Open source software, in particular and
in addition, can be quickly and effectively repurposed.

Open source improved selective fitness.

These four principles imply a fifth: Resilience. Systems engineered to these
principles will be slows, but they will continue to operate, "route around"
challenges.

Freedom isn't free.

Part Three: Plexus
==================

When announced he was quitting facebook, his contacts held what was basically
a wake. Visiting posterous is too hard.

Plexus is a protocol for the social web, allowing components of the social web
to communicate as they can. Some components are very opaque (Facebook), some
are easy to talk to (Twitter).

RFC2822

Part four?
==========

"People who don't have [...] agriculture! have a mobile telephone."

Q: What's UX?
A: User experience. Are you a kernel developer?
Q: No, he writes build tools.


