---
layout     : post
title      : 
tags       : [lca2010, keynote]
categories : [lca]
location   : Wellington, New Zealand
excerpt    : |
  The second keynote at LCA 2010
---

The firsts session on Wednesday, the first day of the conference proper, was 
[Benjamin Mako Hill][bmh]'s [keynote][talk]

[bmh]: http://mako.cc/
[talk]: http://www.lca2010.org.nz/programme/keynotes#BenjaminMakoHill

Currently a student at MIT. Sociology of F/OSS communities. Involved in many
F/OSS projects and free culture movement. Debian, Wikimedia Foundation board,
board of direcorts of FSF. [Unhappy Birthday][uhb]

[uhb]: http://unhappybirthday.com/

Quick overview: frame discussion w/ Free Software vs Open Source debate (old
issue, but hopes to bring something new); values vs. pragmatism split is valid
(but there are ways they come together we don't often talk about);
antifeatures (he made the work up; bunch of examples; what they are; why the
exist); talk about freedom.

The Debate
==========

In one corner the gnu head (representing Stallman, FSF). "Free software" is
often [though] less about software and more about freedom. The
media/technology that we have frames and constrains how and *what* and when we
communicate. In so far as the tech controls my comm, whomever controls the
tech can control our mediates and controls our experience of the world. Given
this, users should control it. Freedom is a benefit in and of itself.

And in the other corner Open Source (representing the new, business friendly
pragmatic ideas). 

The normal FSF response says this is bad: we're not talking about freedom any
more.

But this is something of a false dichotomy: pragmatic benefits really do matter. 

FSF camp is right to worry about talking about reliability, featureful, blah,
blah, blah. These descriptions are often inherently wrong (hardware support).

Median number of contributors of median number contributors: 1, 95th
percentile: 5. Commits: 0. Can't have mass collaboration with yourself.

Antifeatures
============

Proprietary software: world of produces controlling users for profits. Needs
and desires come after producers' profits.

Full of features that users hate. They will, if possible, *pay* to have them
removed. These aren't bugs or lacks: they are deliberately designed, put in
place to screw people over.

Part of freedom is that antifeatures are not possible: no-one chooses to be
exploited.

Fours groups based on why they exist:

1. **Extracting money from users** (easy to understand to anyone who know how
   the Mafia works). Need to pay to *not* by listed in the phone book. They
   get paid for numbers by telemarkets; so they want their dollar from us.

   Gator (spyware) was installed on 30M? 35M? computers, but no-one ever
   remembered installing it. It shipped with other software: peer to peer,
   Kazaa, DivX, etc. DivX had a premium version for $19.95 that *didn't* come
   with the spyware.

   Sony config: "no fresh start" / "fresh start" ($50). They'll charge you $50
   to remove the trials, junkware, etc. They'll get $50 to install it or $50
   from us to remove it.

2. **Market segmentation** (or, less PC, "price discrimination"). Make people
   who will pay more, pay more. 

   Windows: NT Workstation 4.0 vs NT Server 4.0. "Two very diff prod intended
   for two very diff ..." Server unlimited TCP/IP conns, ws only 10. Other
   than this restriction, they were bit for bit identical. One single bit in
   the registry was the sole difference. 

   But that was '96, things are better now (6 versions of Vista). The main
   difference between the 6 versions of Vista is the amount of memory it will
   use. Arbitrary limit set by the software. There are people who're employed
   to make sure your software doesn't work. Starter: a few GB, 250 GB, 3
   running applications (w/ GUI). Enforcing this limit is not a trivial
   problem: the goal is to make a version so bad that anyone who can afford it
   will pay to get away from it.

   Not limited to computer software: Canon G7 digital camera. G1-G6 could all
   shoot RAW (weren't sure if it was amm, prosumer, etc.) Moved to G7: faster,
   bigger processor, etc. but couldn't do RAW anymore: trying to push pros to
   others. RAW is raw sensor data: making this into a JPEG is harder than not.
   Have to pay more to make it *not* convert it to JPEG. Free Software project
   to get access to the RAW.

3. **Securing monopolies** Panasonic released a f/ware update to camera.
   Stopped many cameras dead: they now check for a 3rd party battery. Printers
   that detect 3rd party cartridge and switch from 1200 to 300 dpi; mobiles
   that detect 3rd party batteries and turn off power saving. TI have $1.30
   battery authentication chip: $1.30 of the $10 battery is to stop it from
   working properly. Using SHA256 because SHA1 wasn't strong enough. This is
   an arms raise aimed at us. We're entirely helpless.

   Subscription based services: printers are designed to make it very hard not
   to buy cartridges from *them*. Lots of effort to turn XBox - normal
   computer - with large amount of effort to make sure it can't run Linux.
   TiVo is built around software, with lots of effort to lock it down so you
   can't stop paying the subscription.

4. *"Protecting" copyrights* (From whom? From us). Sim City ask a question at
   start up that you need the manual (dark red ink on dark red paper, can't be
   copied).

   Dongles. Everyone hates dongles. There's an industry making dongles, and
   quite literally everyone hates them. But we pay for them. Computers a
   perfect copying machines - in recent history they've spent a fortune trying
   to break them.

   DVD, CSS, watermarks, unskippable tracks.

But there is hope
=================

The ability to modify software lets us remove things we don't want. To share
lets us collaborate and work together. 

Anti-features aren't possible because we just have not to do it.

Three examples

1. Mobile phones - most common computers, but least likely to work like a
   computer. Lots come locked to a network to enforce the monopoly. We all
   know, but put up with it. The crypographic systems that prevent us from
   installing unapproved software. 

   Even Android: two versions one locked down, one $226 more which is
   unlocked. The extra money pays to *remove* a feature.

   Most trust these devices entirely controlled by companies we hate and don't
   trust.

2. Network services. GitHub: more you pay, less antifeatures you get. Access
   to code isn't the issue: it's autonomy. We're paying for the monitoring and
   billing systems on top of the free software that provides almost the entire
   system.

   Gitorious doesn't do everything the GitHub does, but it *is* missing all
   the antifeatures.

3. DRM ("No one admitted") Major threat to F/OSS. "Mother of all
   antifeatures". 10K people employed in DRM industry, making features that no
   user wants. No-one has ever said "I'd like to do less with my music
   collection, and I'm willing to pay for it."

   Many music services services advertise/d things (DRM) that they *don't* do.
   ITMS has the freedom tax (more for DRM free).

Submit your antifeatures http://wiki.mako.cc/Antifeatures

Questions
=========

There are an important set of conflicts on edge cases: subsidised stuff (cheap
phones), DRM to prevent cheating on phones, etc. 

How can we help fight this? What is "civil disobedience" in this arena? There
are people (like us) who understand these issues, but the vast majority don't.
We can talk about antifeatures as a way to educate people and advocate for
autonomy and F/OSS. All we need to do is *not* do things to get compelling
advantages over proprietary systems.

Thinking about camera and phone batteries. With no restrictions, we might also
have 1mAh batteries sold as 300mAh, or that dissolve your phone? But this
stuff already happens and is already illegal. Consumer protection is awesome,
and that's what we're really talking about. But we already answer these
problems with food, etc. by not going to dodgy places. These arguments are
almost always made by people who are making enormous amounts of money by
"protecting" us.