---
layout     : post
title      : Fields
categories : [ddu2011]
tags       : [drupal]
location   : Brisbane, Queensland
excerpt    : |
  Fields
---

Entities: things that have fields. Everything is an entity (node, taxonomy,
user, etc.) so everything can have fields. You can now add Date fields
everywhere.

Four key components:

1. Field - ???

2. Field type - How the field will be stored in the database.

3. Widget - The form element/s that will be used to edit the data.

4. Formatter - Renders the field value for the end user.

`hook_field_schema()` - tells Fields how to store the field type in the
database.

How to Create a Field
=====================

Create a custom "collaborators" field. Module called `collabfield`, field has
three columns per value: name, role, link.

1. Create a module: `.info`, `.install`, `.module` Include `field_ui`
   dependency, `hook_install()`, `hook_uninstall()`.


Tell Drupal how to store the field data
---------------------------------------

1. Define `hook_field_schema()` in `.install`.

Tell Drupal about the field
---------------------------

1. Implement `hook_field_info()` so that your field will be listed and use the
   correct default widget and formatter.

2. `hook_field_is_empty()` is used to determine that a row is empty.

Create a widget to edit the values
----------------------------------

1. `hook_field_widget_info()` defines a widget.

2. `hook_field_widget_form()` generates the FAPI array to edit a form value.
   The `name`, `role`, `link` need to match the schema.


Create a formatter to render the values
---------------------------------------

1. `hook_field_formatter_info()` describe the formatters provided by the
   module.

2. `hook_field_formatter_view()` renders the value or values of the field
   being rendered.
