---
layout : post
title : 
---

Consistency
===========

Ensuring identical behaviour within and across environments. Each of the many
environments.

Configuration management and testing are essential. 

Puppet: language for describing configurations, library for applying same,
client and server for moving them around. Need to explicitly describe the
relationships between packages, services, etc. to make sure that they're all
done in the right order.

Write manifests, apply to a machine, check it (because you'll probably get
something). Lots of manifests (100+ in the case study).

Configuration drift between environments (development, testing, staging,
production gradually diverging). Using roles to explicitly pass parameters
into different environments (diff logging servers) rather than customising the
manifests.


Repeatability
=============

Automation to reduce human error and shorten feedback loops.

Capistrano - Ruby DSL around SSH. Simple, powerful, can blow your legs off.
Use it to automate repetitive tasks, not as a replacement for configuration
management.

Railsless-deploy - plugin to remove the 

capistrano-ext? contains stuff for multi-stage deployments to simplify
deployment to testing, staging, production, etc.

`remote_cache` - Cap will cache the SVN repo. Bad with tags so use git-svn and
cron to mirror locally.

Visibility
==========

Keeping one eye on the on past and one eye on the future. Graphs and charts.

Monitoring and reporting.

Use collectd to collect metrics of systems. Platform for collecting time
series data, around 100 plugins; network aware, forwarding data from front
ends to stats boxes; well defined APIs, especially for network layer.

Example: `curl_json` plugin to poll a URL, extracting a bunch of keys from the
JSON, and "collecting" the values.

Application and configuration changes coming down the pipeline.

Use something like GitHub with an organisation-wide news feed so that you can
keep an eye on upcoming things.

Using `mmm control show` will block on high load, but it still works under the
scenes, connect yourself.

----

`mk-` Automatically report slow queries to devs and ops.

Retrospectives
==============

One
---

MMM, 2 masters, 4 slaves.

1. Replication failure on one slave, down to 2 masters, 3 slaves. Increased
load on cluster.

2. Replication delay on one node.

3. Machine was swapping like mad, missing half the memory, upgrade and reboot
and it was done in 20 minutes.

Two
---

Having PHP connection errors from the app servers to the DB servers. Asked
devs to implement a config dump URL and redeployed.

Waited and it turned out there was a typo.

Two people review configuration.


Data Consistency
----------------

Bunch of database migrations for new feature.

1. Passed UAT 

2. Passed stage.

3. Blew up on production.

The different data in the production caused a failure which wasn't caught
because it's database wasn't being fed back to staging and UAT.

Communication
=============

None of this stuff will work, though without communication.
