# Haskell in Production: 12 months of ApiEngine

Greg Davis and Mark Hibberd

ApiEngine is a web app.

Team of four; live in same timezone, work in different timezones.

ApiEngine is a web application which does things with APIs?

# Why Haskell?

Fast by default, safe by default. Allows development team to focus on what
matters.

Implements 130 API calls in 5000 lines of code with 4 if statements and no
exceptions.

# Stack

- Linux
- Riak
- Postgres
- Yesod

## Language

Three GHC language extensions

- NoImplicitPrelude, and define own using the better versions of everything.

- GADTs to encode invariants for APIs.

- GeneraliseNewtypeDeriving lets you throw away (and generate) code. Make
  stronger types for ID types.

## Operations

- Native code
- daemontools
- chef

## Development

- criterion
- quickcheck
- cabal-dev

## Runtime

- aeson
- postgres-simple (throws exceptions)
- riak client library (already returns error values)
- EKG for monitoring

# Problem: crashes

Crashes without stack traces sucks. (Although it doens't crash so much)

# Winning: communication

The Haskell is readable enough for the front-end guy to read and understand
what he needs to do. Less need for documentation, less drift and chance for
error.

- Yesod routes.
- Applicative functors to parse JSON.

# Winning: Dependencies

Really surprising. Cabal is the thing that everyone loves to hate, but there
are a few positives. It's better than a lot of similar systems, and it provides
the tools that you need to resolve these issues.

- Lock down specific versions of specific packages.

## Problems

GHC 7.0, 7.4, 7.6

Depends on 176 packages

Only 2 (dependency) bugs not caught at compile time.

`<>` and `catchIO` only real compatability issues.

## Leading causes or rage

Dependencies that throw exceptions are bad and wrong. Errors as values can be
checked by the type system, etc.

## Unnecessary specialisation to IO

All bets are off: go from "I can trust this code" to "this person has just
reimplemented Java".

# Web

Yesod: makes easy things easy.

# Archiecture

The Z monad wraps the core of the system. Configuration, logging, etc.

Lots of plumbing code is basically:

1. Yesod input handling.
2. Action in Z lifted to Yesod monad.
3. Yesod output handling.

