---
layout: post
title: "AWS Summit: Security"
tags: aws, amazon, infrastructure, ops
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: Notes from the cloud security talk.
---

VPC - protected subnets controlling access to the instances on it. ACLs, 
elastic IPs, VPNs to bridge to corporate networks.

PCI DSS 2.0 certified, for what that's worth. Still need to certify all the
machines, configurations, etc. you build on top of AWS.

AWS infrastructure has quite good internal network security. DDoS 
mitigration, filters IP spoofing, ports blocked by default, port scanning 
detected, packet capture and promiscuous mode prevented.

See http://aws.amazon.com/security for announcements, etc.

Security in the cloud is a shared responsibility - infrastructure security is
the concern of AWS and application security is the customers' and Trendmicro 
are happy to take your money to help.

Security concerns:

- Data sovereignty policies may prohibit data from leaving a jurisdiction. 
  This is "solved" by the AWS Sydney region.

- Lifetime management, especially w.r.t. data destruction. AWS cleans
  volumes when instances are terminated *and* when they are created. If this 
  is not sufficient to meet requirements, then encryption.

- Compliance with external regulation and internal policies.

- Etc.

The security of your instances and services is your responsibility.

Virtualised and - especially - cloud envionments are dynamic, so  perimeter
security controls are no longer acceptible. Change in architecture toward
instance-based security: "self-defending operating system".

Instance security might include:

- Encryption

- Anti-malware

- Vulnerability management

- Host firewall (in addition to AWS security groups)

- Host intrusion prevention 

- File integrity monitoring

- Patch or shield vulnerabilities deploy protections against known
  vulnerabilites until they can be patched.

- Data loss prevention

The basic principles of security don't change; the implementation,
provisioning, and management are changing. Bring automation, repeatability,
embodiement, scale to security management too.

Moving to AWS may yield cost and risk savings w.r.t. to network and
infrastructure security.

Security management platforms which know more about their subjects ("cloud
aware", 7-10 parameters) can determine and apply policies more effectively.
They can also respond to events during the instance life cycle (new IP, etc.)
which are less common in traditional deployments.

Automation of security is even more important in the face of techniques like
auto-scaling; having instances auto-enrole with security platforms is
essential (assuming that security management platforms are essential).

# Practical Guidance

Automation is critical. New instances should be enroled automatically, state
management must have deep knowledge of platform (terminated vs suspended,
etc.)

A single mangement console is important.

Patching is important; 'replace not repair' can be a useful approach.

Log collection in the cloud.

