---
layout: post
title: "AWS Summit, Sydney"
tags: aws, amazon, conference
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: Notes from the Amazon Web Services Summit, Sydney 2013.
---

I've spent the day at the [2013 AWS Summit, Sydney][1] hearing a bunch of
people talk about AWS and related products. The programme included a keynote
followed by three tracks of six presentations each and ended with a drinks
session.

[1]: http://aws.amazon.com/2013-summit/

I felt that the keynote -- including APAC and global AWS executives and three
customers -- was far too long and that a lot of the content could have been
trimmed.

My **first session** was James Bromberger's overview of "your first week with
Amazon EC2". He very quickly described the first few steps of using EC2
including:

1. Provisioning a new instance, security group, key pair and the like running
Amazon Linux with a whole application stack running on it.

2. Moving the database onto RDS and creating an AMI from our initial EC2
instance.

3. Using CloudWatch to monitor and alert on metrics for the EC2 and RDS
instances.

4. Deploying in multiple availability-zones with load balancing and auto-
scaling.

5. Using Route53 for DNS, IAM for permission management and CloudFormer to
generate code describing our infrastructure.

The **second session** was about cloud security. I found it a bit too high-
level and then a little sales-y.

The **third session** I attended was about "continuous deployment practices,
with production, test and development environments running on AWS" by Simon
Elisha. I'm always interested in learning more about CI and CD (one of these
days I'll even *use* them) and this was an interesting, though also quite
high-level, discussion of CI and CD using AWS.

After afternoon tea I saw Daniel Hand talk about "scalable media processing on
the cloud".
