Quote from Okasaki:

> Programmers can use any language they like as long as it's imperative.

Tree with tip and branch constructors. In pure language with immutable data
this makes updates inefficient. Flipping the arrow makes local updates cheap,
but you need to turn the data structure inside out.

This structure is a zipper:

- lefts
- value
- rights
- context

Contexts (types for left, right and top) are the parent of the node, lefts and
rights are the siblings.

Zippers are one holed contexts. You can define them on lists, classes, etc.
Transforming a type into a one-hole context can be automated (taking the
derivative of the data type).

Scala Shapeless library. HList, isomorphisms between our types and HList.
Shapeless can statically check traversals.

# Tony

Zippers are not monads. A monad is injectible, comonads are extractable.

## Comonads

	trait Comonad
		map[A](f: A => B): F[A] => F[B]
		copoint
		coflatten
		coflatMap(A,B)

map, contramap, apply, flatmap, coflatmap are all the same types with different
arrangements of the F, A, B.

- extract
- duplicate = 
- extend = coflatmap

> "Co" means "categorical dual of".

Comonad is the categorical dual of monad (the arrows are the other way around?)

## Semicomonad

Extends functor (so they have map).

Doesn't have extract; only duplicate and extend (they are mutually definable,
so you only need to specify one of them).

Extend to Comonad with extract.

Examples:

- Option is a semicomonad; can't extract from empty.

- List is a semicomonad; can't extract from empty list.

### Store co-monad

### Laws

Associativty of coflatmap

Left identity

right identify

## What?

Semicomonad of zippers will `duplicate` to zipper of zippers. (enumerate
traversal)

extract is pretty clear.

> Mark

Efficient data structures in pure lanaguegs are easy with the right tools.
Comonads are one of the tools, especially for traversal algorithms.
