---
layout: post
title: "AWS Summit: Continuous Deployment"
tags: aws, amazon, devops, continuous deployment
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: Notes from the "Continuous Deployment with Amazon Web Services" talk.
---

Simon Elisha - Principal Solutions Architect.

# Continuous Integration

Developer commits code to repo, schedules a build. Results of code quality
test are pushed through to PM system. Artefacts are kept.

*Lean Startup says that rapid iteration is the key to success; "iteratively
*modify the system to better meet expectations of your users".

AWS is a programmable platform; infrastructure as code. SDKs and IDE toolkits
in lanaguages you prefer; new AWS CLI package in developer preview, single CLI
for all of AWS.

CloudFormation uses JSON documents to describe an infrastructure. Treat it
just like application code. See the examples based on open source
applications.

Now we have application version **and** infrastructure versions. Use the same
process and automation to manage all environments.

# Continuous Deployment

Deployment of software does not mean you've launched the product. Production
is the only place that you can really valdiate software. You can control
access to new functionality to, e.g., validate functionality with users (A/B
testing).

- Etsy deployify.

- SmugMug Sourcery - Arduino control panel to trigger deployments.

## OpsWorks

Based on Chef; define your stack. Automate configuration, etc.

## A/B Testing

Validate functionality by exposing several options and seeing which one is
most effective in front of actual users.

## Load Testing

Nothing should be pushed into production without adequate load-testing. This
has been a problem historically due to a lack of infrastructure to generate
sufficient load.

- *beeswithmachineguns* open source tool to DDoS yourself with micro
  instances.

CoD MW game testing w/ 2.4 million simulated players.

Experiment and innovate far more rapidly. Many, frequent, small changes lower
the cost of failure.

# REA Group

Tragedy of the commons with 1 QA env and 1 DEV env; people broke the build and
didn't own (and fix) it. New system to allow any team to deploy end-to-end.
Give everyone their own enviroment means that breakage is your own problem and
doesn't impact anyone else.

Ruby gems which allow you to spin up EC2 instances within a VPC, or whole
stacks. Used manually or, even, as part of an automated CI procedure.

Hitting the AWS limits impacted business culture (people hoarding
environments, etc.); needed to change some behaviours.

Hackathon every quarter (dev, sales, etc.) to experiment with new
applications, etc.

## Efficiency

Innovation is good, but efficiency is important too. Managing resources and
allowing them to be assigned, and billed, to teams and projects is important.
Without this, you spend a lot of money on 

The `stopinator` can be configured to shutdown environments according to a
schedule; don't run dev, test, QA enviroments out of hours.

Will open source a metrics tool too.

See their github.
