---
title: Workshop on Higher-Order Programming with Effects
tags: event, hope, icfp, effects, functional programming
location: Vancouver, Canada
excerpt: 
  Here are some quick notes I took during the Workshop on Higher-Order
  Programming with Effects co-located with ICFP 2015.
---

[HOPE][2] is a one day workshop which is affiliated with
[ICFP][2]. This year they are in Vancouver and, if the morning session
at HOPE is anything to judge by, it's going to be a great week! Here
are some notes I took.

[1]: http://icfpconference.org/icfp2015/
[2]: http://users-cs.au.dk/birke/hope-2015/

Aaron Turon from Mozilla gave an invited talk about Rust, the systems
programmming language Mozilla are developing. Aaron introduces the
context of systems programming languages - particularly the need for
fine control over memory layout, allocation and description, and also
safety concerns with the interplay of aliasing and mutation. He ran
described some of Rusts features and the way they are deployed to
address these concerns: the affine type system with ownership and
borrowing of references (singular borrowings which permit mutability or
multiple borrowings which must be immutable) and a concurrency model
which prohibits the existence of data races. The key to deploying these
to build effective abstractions is the use of an `unsafe` escape hatch
allowing the programmers to write code which does *not* obey all the
invariants but severely restricts the amount which must be manually
verified to be correct (unlike languages like C/C++, where this is the
entire program).

After the coffee break we had four shorter talks beginning with a
presentation on combining effects and coeffects. Where type systems
assign types to programs, effect systems describe the ways a program
effects its environment, and coeffect systems describe the requirements
a program has of its environment. The paper described using
*effect-graded monads* and *coeffect-graded comonads* to encode the
effect and coeffect systems. These are monads and comonads which are
graded (indexed) by elements of a preordered monoid of effects or
preordered semiring of coeffects. The monadic and comonadic operations
use the distinguished elements and operations of those algebraic
structures to calculate the labels of composed monadic and comonadic
operations. A distributive law allows combining these monads and
comonads with two operations (a Zappa-Szep product) that can combing an
effect/coeffect pair into a coeffect and a coeffect/effect pair into an
effect.

Next Robert Atkey presented an algebraic approach to building type
checkers. This had a lot of the flavour of the finally tagless approach
applied to the construction of type checkers 

