--- 
wordpress_id: 1472
layout: post
title: Stupid Apple!
wordpress_url: http://passingcuriosity.com/2005/stupid-apple/
---
As much as I love my iBook, want a iMac and find my iPod handy, I hate Apple. I recently bought a <a href="http://store.apple.com/1-800-MY-APPLE/WebObjects/AppleStore.woa/72703/wo/NQ5mkcimnHtZ2vNjbMnFcx2NBju/1.0.0.11.1.0.6.9.3.19.0.1.0.1.1.1.1.0.3">remote control for my iPod</a>. You know, the one that goes in between the ear-phones and the iPod. The one with the clip to conveniently attach it to your clothing so that you can get to it.<br /><br />As it is designed to be used in a manner that makes it susceptible to the buttons being knocked, the Apple engineers put a hold switch on it, so that you can disable the buttons while not in use. After less than a week of use, the hold switch fell of my iPod remote control. While it was locked. Needless to say, I was a little surprised.<br /><br />Naively, I took my remote to the Apple store at which I purchased it. After a bit of a wait (they were busy) one of the staff told me that I had to phone Apple and gave me the number. When I phoned Apple, the telephone operator told me (after a while on hold) that I needed to fill in a form on the Apple web site and then take it and the item to be returned to Australia Post (what I do with it then was left as an exercise for the reader). As annoying as this is, I can accept that Apple is a big company and, as such, they need procedures like these to get anything done.<br /><br />What really shits me off, is that I can't submit the form on the Apple web site because it requires credit card information. I don't have a credit card, I don't want a credit card and if I did have a credit card, I most certainly wouldn't give it to a company in these circumstances.<br /><br />While I love Apple's computers and find my iPod and Airport Express base station handy, I can't help but be appalled at:<ol><li> the fact that a remote control, a device designed to be carried around, broke after less than a week; and</li><br /><li>that I need to enter my credit card details to return an item that, as I see it, was not fit for the purpose for which it was sold.</li></ol>I suppose that I need to phone the help line again to find out what I'm supposed to do, but in the mean time, I can't help but resent it.
