--- 
wordpress_id: 1520
layout: post
title: Teaching; A First Reaction
wordpress_url: http://passingcuriosity.com/2006/teaching-a-first-reaction/
---
Today was the first day of my first block of professional experience at a high-school in Tasmania. I'm teaching a unit on <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_theorem">Pythagoras' Theorem</a> (which states that the square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides usually written: <code>a<sup>2</sup>+b<sup>2</sup>=c<sup>2</sup></code>) to two classes.<br /><br />I introduced the topic by drawing a right triangle on the board, labelling its angles A, B, and C in ascending order, then labelling the sides a, b, and c after their opposite angle. C is obviously the right angle, and c is the hypotenuse. I then stated the <emph>proposition</emph> that: <code style="display: block; clear: both; text-align:center;">a<sup>2</sup>+b<sup>2</sup>=c<sup>2</sup></code>; illustrated that proposition by way of drawing a triangle abc with a square of the appropriate size on each side and proposed that we would, as a group, be proving that it is true (that it is a theorem).<br /><br />I introduced the students to two different dissection proofs of Pythagoras' Theorem: <ol><!--<br />--><li>The first dissects two squares <code>(a+b)<sup>2</sup></code>, one into <code>a<sup>2</sup></code>, <code>b<sup>2</sup></code> and four triangles <code>0.5ab</code>; and the other into <code>c<sup>2</sup></code> and four triangles <code>0.5ab</code>. We can describe the relationship between the areas of the two squares as <code>a<sup>2</sup>+b<sup>2</sup>+2ab = c<sup>2</sup>+2ab</code>. The <code>2ab</code> on each side cancel each other out (being trivially equal) and we are left with <code>a<sup>2</sup>+b<sup>2</sup>=c<sup>2</sup></code>. Q.E.D.</li><!--<br /><br />--><li>The second proof beings with a diagram of the square <code>c<sup>2</sup></code> (drawn using four right triangles arranged within a square <code>(a+b)<sup>2</sup></code>). If we draw within the <code>c<sup>2</sup></code> four right triangles arranged to leave a gap in the centre (a square of <code>(b-a)<sup>2</sup></code>). These five pieces taken from <code>c<sup>2</sup></code> can be rearranged to form <code>a<sup>2</sup>+b<sup>2</sup></code>. Q.E.D.</li></ol><!--<br /><br />-->These two proofs can be seen at the <a href="http://www.sunsite.ubc.ca/DigitalMathArchive/Euclid/java/html/pythagorasdissection.html">Digital Mathematics Archive's page of dissection proofs of Pythagoras' Theorem</a>. The first proof can be seen in the second diagram on that page, and the second proof is illustrated (in the same way I explained it) in the sixth diagram. Both classes managed to complete both of these proofs in just over 40 minutes, though I think that the first group may have suffered due to my nervousness.<br /><br />My colleague teacher (who usually teaches these classes) gave me a lot of feedback on my performance. I managed to miss many, many, <emph>many</emph> of the little bits and pieces that keep things together: <ol><!--<br />--><li>introducing myself;</li><!--<br />--><li>beginning with a question (to find out what they already know and get them thinking about the topic);</li><!--<br />--><li>writing pertinent terms on the board (like "Pythagoras' Theorem" for example);</li><!--<br />--><li>structuring the lesson into 'direction' and 'doing' blocks effectively; and</li><!--<br />--><li>three pages of other bits and pieces.</li><!--<br />--></ol><!--<br /><br />-->Hopefully, I'll be able to resolve most of them by the end of this two week placement.<br /><br /><span class="tags"><strong>Tags:</strong> <a rel="tag" href="http://del.icio.us/thsutton/education">Education</a> <a rel="tag" href="http://del.icio.us/thsutton/teaching">Teaching</a> <a rel="tag" href="http://del.icio.us/thsutton/practicum">Practicum</a></span>
