---
layout: post
title: Notes on Haskell, and all the wonderful things it doesn’t let you do
tags: [haskell, lca2010, oplm2010, notes]
categories: [lca, lca2010]
location: Wellington, New Zealand
excerpt: |
  My notes on Stephen Blackheath's talk at Open Programming Language Miniconf
  2010: Haskell, and all the wonderful things it doesn’t let you do.
---

The first talk at the [Open Programming Language Miniconf 2010][oplm2010] was
by Stephen Blackheath's *[Haskell, and all the wonderful things it doesn’t let
you do][talk]*. This was cool -- given that Haskell is my favourite language
-- but I didn't get much out of it beyond a link to [Stephen's Arrows
Tutorial][arr].

[oplm2010]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/
[talk]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/programme/#haskell
[arr]: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Haskell/StephensArrowTutorial

The talk, aimed at newcomers, covered a lot of ground. It started with a
characterisation of Haskell as a pure, functional, non-strict, strongly,
statically typed, programming language and gave all the usual reasons that
those are nice properties for a programming language to have.

After a few examples of the syntax, Stephen talked about recursion and
mentioned that idiomatic Haskell tends to use a higher-order function
implementing a particular recursions scheme, but didn't really point any out
(other than using `map` in example). 

Next was a brief discussion of the type system: it's strong and static, but it
also features type inference so you don't need to supply signatures for
everything. It's probably important to note though, that it's still a good
idea for top level definitions for documentation purposes, if for no other
reason. Next was a mention of QuickCheck and automatic testing.

Finally, there was a bit about Haskell's non-strict semantics and the usual
points about concurrency (being hard in imperative languages and rather easier
in Haskell). Laziness is useful as it makes it possible to represent
[potentially] infinite data structures and looping data structures without
destructive updates, alas it can make it hard (or, at least, harder) to reason
about and predict the time and space behaviour of a program.

It was a pretty good talk, but I though Stephen missed a few opportunities to
make some important points that the audience might have appreciated. In
particular, I'd have mentioned the various higher-order recursion operators
and opportunity they provide for automatic application-specific optimisations
through fusion. This is the sort of thing that is difficult or impossible in a
lot of languages but are seriously cool!
