---
layout: post
title: Attribute Oriented Programming in PHP
categories: [lca, lca2010]
tags: [lca2010, oplm2010, php, code, notes, aop]
location: Wellington, New Zealand
excerpt: |
  The fourth talk at the Open Programming Language Miniconf 2010 was Peter
  Serwylo's presentation about Attribute Oriented Programming in PHP.
---

The fourth talk at the [Open Programming Language Miniconf 2010][oplm2010] was
Peter Serwylo's presentation about *[Attribute Oriented Programming in
PHP][talk]*. His [notes][notes] are available online.

[oplm2010]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/
[talk]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/programme/#aopphp
[notes]: http://lca2010.serwylo.com/

Attributes
==========

Attributes are "extra" bits embedded in source code that doesn't *necessarily*
mean anything in the language. Common examples include the documentation
annotations in many comment systems (such as the tags used in Javadoc
comments), JVM annotations, and .Net attributes.

A testing framework, for example, might use a `TestFunction` attribute to
identify which methods should be called.

{% highlight java %}
@TestFunction
public function testValidation() {...}
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight csharp %}
[TestFunction]
public function testValidation() {...}
{% endhighlight %}

Use cases 
=========

In Java EE you have "beans" which encapsulate business logic. Each bean
requires a bunch of wrappers for remote access, "home" access (whatever that
means), XML files, etc. Keeping all this relatively "boiler-plate" code in
synch is painful. Annotating the bean classes and methods with attributes
makes it possible to generate most of this automatically. No more manual
synching XML files.

Java, though, (as of Java 5) has built in support for [annotations][j5ann] and
is a compiled language. This makes it relatively simple to do this analysis
and generation at build time. PHP, on the other hand, doesn't have an
annotation mechanism and doesn't *have* a built time.

[j5ann]: http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/language/annotations.html

Instead, Peter's approach is to use PHP comments to add the attributes. At
load time, these comments are processed using the reflection API and this is
used to build a data structure to use for access control. See the
[permissions example][perms].

[perms]: http://lca2010.serwylo.com/06_ivt_example.html

A more complex case
===================

To take this a little further, Peter [wrote a Zend
extension](http://lca2010.serwylo.com/07_php_zend_example.html) that makes it
possible to [sort of] do aspect oriented programming (on function points) in
PHP. The `add_function_hook()` function allows you to register an attribute
and a callback and the extension will call your callback before a function
with that attribute is executed:

{% highlight php %}
<?php
class RequiresLogging
{

	/**
	 * @log notice "Secret action performed by user [user]
	 */
	public function secretAction()
	{
		// perform secret action...
	}

}

// 
// The callback function
//
function performLog( $message )
{
	$parts = split( " ", $message, 2 );
	$level = $parts[0];
	$message = $parts[1];
	Logger::log( $level, $message );
}

// 
// Register the callback
// 
add_function_hook( "log", "performLog" );

// Now code like this will result in a log message being recorded
$object = new RequiresLogging();
$object->secretAction();
{% endhighlight %}

This type approach is flexible and extremely powerful. You can inject
permission checking code and raise an exception before the real function is
even called.

There are a bunch of memory leaks and possible bugs in the Zend extension, but
it is working and in production use!
