---
layout     : post
title      : Notes on Preparing for PHP6
tags       : [lca2010, oplm2010, php, code]
categories : [lca, lca2010]
location   : Wellington, New Zealand
excerpt    : |
  My notes on Ben Balbo's talk at Open Programming Language Miniconf
  2010: Preparing for PHP6.
---

The third talk at the [Open Programming Language Miniconf 2010][oplm2010] was
by [Ben Balbo][bb] presentation about *[Preparing for PHP6][talk]*. Though the
slides were a little hard to read -- Ben used one of those horrible
hand-writing style fonts -- it was chockablock full of useful information.

[oplm2010]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/
[talk]: http://blogs.tucs.org.au/oplm/programme/#php6
[bb]: http://benbalbo.com/

He started with a list of things that have been removed or altered in PHP6 and
then described some of the new features. Some of the things from both lists
are present in version 5.3.

Removals and changes
--------------------

In PHP6 `E_ALL` will include `E_STRICT` which may cause errors to be reported
in code that is OK in PHP5. A new `E_DEPRECATED` has been introduced and is
also included in `E_ALL`. This new error is raised when you use any deprecated
functions.

These deprecated functions and features include register globals, magic
quotes, safe mode and ASP-style `<% %>` tags. Also going/gone are the
`$HTTP_POST_VARS` and `$HTTP_GET_VARS` variables. 

Other changes include assign-by-reference (using `=&`) and `zend_compat`
raising `E_STRICT`. Class members defined without a visibility modifier will
be `public` by default (and will also raise `E_STRICT`).

Dynamically loading extensions is now disabled by default on all SAPIs except
the command-line interpreter. This needs to be enabled (in `php.ini`, I
assume) if required.

In a rather acrobatic backflip, the formerly deprecated `$str[1]` is no-longer
deprecated and its replacement `$str{1}` now *is* deprecated. You can also now
use the subscript syntax to take a slice of a string -- like `$str[1,3]` -- as
you in some other languages.

The wacky variable `break` feature (where one breaks out of a variable number
of looping constructs: `break $anint;`) is deprecated. It's disappearance make
me wonder (again) why it was added in the first place. I can't help but wonder
if there was a use-case in mind, or if it was just "because".

The `microtime()` function now returns the float value by default; you'll no
longer need to use `microtime(TRUE)` in every invocation.

The move to using the PCRE-based [`preg_*`][preg] functions for regular
expressions is finally complete. The [`ereg_*`][ereg] functions have been
removed from core and stuck in a PECL extension. At the same time,
[`mime_magic`][mime_magic] has also been moved to a PECL extension and its
more useful and popular cousin [`fileinfo`][fileinfo] has replaced it in core.

[preg]: http://php.net/manual/en/book.pcre.php
[ereg]: http://php.net/manual/en/book.regex.php
[mime_magic]: http://php.net/manual/en/book.mime-magic.php
[fileinfo]: http://php.net/manual/en/book.fileinfo.php

Additions
---------

The big ticket new item must be namespaces. The controversial choice to use
backslash as the separator was due to the simple fact that it is the only
single character available. This doesn't make it any less silly, especially
because of the way that function "references" in PHP are just strings:

{% highlight php %} 
$func = "\application\names\afunc";
$func();
{% endhighlight %}

All names refer to the current namespace, but prefixing a name with a
backslash will make it relative to the "root" namespace.

You can import things from other name spaces with the `use` keyword and, if
required -- perhaps there is a clash -- alias them by taking an `as` clause on
the end:

{% highlight php %}
use \MyCompany\Blog\User as BlogUser;
use \MyCompany\CMS\User as CMSUser;
{% endhighlight %}

Functions and classes both belong to namespaces and definitions are processed
top-down. Thus the following code defines a `foo()` function and then a
`bundle\foo()` function:

{% highlight php %}
function foo() { echo "G"; }

namespace bundle;

function foo() { echo "NS"; }

bundle\foo(); // "NS"
foo(); // "G"
{% endhighlight %}

Another important change is the addition of late static binding. In previous
versions of PHP `self::foo` in the code of a superclass method refers the
`foo` member of that superclass, even if the subclass defines a `foo` member.
This problem is ameliorated with the addition of a new `static` keyword.
`static::foo` will do what you expect: look in subclass, then in the parent/s.

All in all, it looks like PHP6 is a great big leap forward in the evolution of
PHP. A few more major versions and it might catch up to modern languages.