---
layout : post
---

Structure
---------

1. Front end parses a particular source language. Generates trees and passes them to the middle end.

2. middle end performs a bunch of optimisations (-O1 -O2 -O3 and the various
other optimisations take place here) and transformations through a number of
internal formats and generates RTL

3. The back end takes RTL and uses it to generate assembler for the particular
target architecture and operating system.

History
-------

* 4.2 in 2007
* 4.3 in 2008
* 4.4 in 2009

Every GCC release will include continuous improvements in:

* language support (the committees are always making languages ever more
complex).
* infrastructure support .
* improvement to optimisations and new optimisation passes.
* generally a new processor and/or new architecture.
* occasionally drop an architecture.
* improved and extended warnings.
* performance and robustness improvements for GCC itself.

**License**

GCC didn't have any of the discussions about moving to GPLv3 because it's
owned by the FSF. 4.2 changed the license for everything but the run-time.

Took a long time for the FSF/lawyers to come up with a run-time exception that
would work properly. The run-time *needs* and exception and it can't be GPLv3:
no-one will use it if compiling your program (and thus linking against the
run-time) will make it GPL.

GCC is no longer just a single program with magic things happening inside it.
Link-time optimisation records information about the program which might allow
someone to implement proprietary optimisations, etc. Plugins have a similar
"objection".

The new run-time exception prohibits some of this stuff (Oh noes! Someone who
wants to sell their software!) so plugins and link-time optimisations are OK
now.

Non-static inline functions (spec?) vs static inline functions (gcc patch?)
seemed to clash, but it's fixed now.

Some sort of floating point arithmetic. 

GCC 4.3 `varargs.h` has gone and code needs fixing to use the standard
mechanism.

**C++**

4.3 and 4.4 introduced changes that affect source compatibility: lots of
headers included other headers, etc. This is gone and you'll need to
`#include` them yourself now.

TR1 defined a bunch of supporty stuff which has gone into 4.2, 4.3 (and maybe
4.4). Work on C++0x is going into 4.4 (but it's all experimental and will
change to follow the standard).

**Fortran**

Unlike the rest of the compiler: it's *all* done by volunteers (who use it for
their day jobs: designing jet engines, predicting weather, etc)

Fortran 2003 and 2008 work is going on.

**OpenMP**

Open standard for parallel programming: puts directives into programs and adds
a run-time to support it.

GCC supports OpenMP directives in C, C++, and Fortran. Support for recent
version going in on 4.3 and 4.4.

**Infrastructure**

GCC hackers did "data flow analysis" that was nothing like real, PLT data flow
analysis. This annoyed people who know about it, so they pulled it out (of
several different places in the compiler) and replaced it with a normal data
flow analysis system.

GCC 4.4 added graphite infrastructute. Uses polyhedral models to look at loops
and uses this to do, ATM, three optimisations.

**Improved Optimisations Passes**

Alias, dead code elimination, dead store elimination, domination tree
optimisations, inline, scalar replace, value range prop, vectorisation

News: sign extension elimination, vector cost model, whole program structure
reorganisation, etc. (in 4.3).

Optimisation tradeoffs include a lot of considerations (and whether they are
included in `-O1`, `-O2` and/or `-O3`). This includes both the effect on the
generated code (performance, memory and code size, etc.) and the compile time
effects (compile time and space requirements). Also the type of program for
which the optimisations are useful (and whether they degrade certain others).

Because something might expose user bugs doesn't keep it out. Alias analysis:
a lot of programs stopped working, but it brings a lot of performance (and the
spec says that it's undefined). But this broke heaps, so they added an option
to turn it off and 

Signed integer overflow: the spec says it's undefined so assume it doesn't
happen. Added variable range analysis `for (i=1; i > 0; i *= 2)` assume that
`*=` never overflows (as per spec) and transform it to `while (TRUE) ;`.

What's Next?
============

GCC 4.5 will be released sometime (originally planned for last December).

Will include new optimisations using graphite framework, named address spaces,
accurate debug information for optimised code (will tell you something that
make sense or tell you "sorry"), link-time optimisation (new front end:
compile to O+LTO info -> LTO as another go through the compiler) and plugins
(shared library built against a version of GCC, the API moves).

gcc.gnu.org

Slides have notes with lots of details.

GCC summit