

# Module 4

Not sure that "Success Criterion 3.2.3 Consistent Navigation" is really quick
to implement. at least, not when theres a "require additional consideration"
category too. Often, in my experience, any inconsistency in navigation is
deliberate on the part of designers; possibly some more consideration in the
design phase would improve outcomes with respect to this criterion.

"Success Criterion 2.4.5 Multiple Ways" is amongst my favourite of the success
criteria, but I wonder how best to address it with some very large collections
of pages such as blogs and large catalogues of products. Is "multiple" just a
synonym for "more than one" or is "more better"? Do, e.g., tag clouds, category
indices, etc. count as "multiple ways" for these purposes?

## Activity

### Do you agree with the way in which the W3C has divided the guidelines across the three levels of compliance (Levels 'A', 'AA' and 'AAA')?

I agree to a large extenet, though perhaps the particular arrangement is not
ideal. In particular the split in A, AA, and AAA is too easy to read as
"definitely", "should", and "don't worry about it, it's probably not possibly".

I' probably prefer a scheme which is either flatter ("compulsary" and
"recommended") and/or more explicit (perhaps similar to that used in IETF RFC
specifications: "MUST/MUST NOT", "SHOULD/SHOULD NOT", and "MAY/MAY NOT"). This
would avoid users reading value judgements into the levels.

Also: the particular levels "A", "AA", "AAA" have a slight hint of "everyone
wins a prize". But that's probably me reading things into it.

### Do you think ‘AAA’ is worth it?

For end users, it certainly must be.

Criterion 1.2.6 must, when it is followed, must provide enormous benefit above
and beyond accessibility to members of those deaf communities which use sign
languages radically different to the spoken and written languages of their
larger communities.

From a cost/benefit perspective, I can't imagine the much higher costs and much
smaller aggregate benefit of many of these "techniques" being balanced when
compared to others (sign langauge interpretation vs captioning and
transcription).

### What would you change to make these guidelines more applicable to your workplace?

Given the ongoing discussion about the feasibility of AAA and the nature of the
specific criteria mentioned in the course (particularly "Success Criterion
1.2.6 Sign Language") I can't help but wonder if some or all of AAA should be
viewed as instantiations of other criteria (particularly, in my rather
uninformed opinion, the sign language and reading level criteria) or either
incorporated into A/AA or removed entirely.

### This week’s assignment focuses on captioning video using YouTube. In your opinion, how accessible is the YouTube website given your knowledge of WCAG 2.0?
