---
layout:     post
title:      Linux.conf.au 2013 - Monday
tags:       lca2013, lca, linux, sysadmin, virtualisation, selinux
location:   Canberra, Australian Capital Territory
excerpt:    My notes from Monday 28 January at Linux.conf.au 2013 in Canberra. Mostly about systems administration talks.
---

The [schedule for Monday][20130128] was a little inconvenient pitting
miniconfs about cloud infrastructure, Linux security and system administration
against each other. It was also a public holiday (in lieu of Australia Day,
which fell on Saturday this year) which limited our options for lunch a
little. In any case, I saw some pretty good talks.

[20130128]: http://lca2013.linux.org.au/programme/schedule/monday

Keynote
=======

Bdale Garbee's keynote was an interesting mix including pushback against some
of the current work going on in the Linux community, some facts and figures
about the dream of Linux desktops sold by OEMs, some personal anecdotes about
the conference and a bunch more.

Linux in Defence
================

The first talk of the day was Jamie Birse's description of [Linux in
Defence][lid] in the Systems Administration Miniconf. His talk described the
maintenance of standard operating environments for JORN - the [Jindalee
Operational Radar Network][JORN].

[JORN]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jindalee_Operational_Radar_Network
[lid]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#jamie_birse

Particularly interesting is the focus on rebuilding defective systems from
scratch (rather than trying to repair them) due to the lack of experienced
Linux system administration staff at most sites and the uptime requirements
which make long investigate/repair cycles infeasible.

Syzix: heading off the beaten $PATH
===================================

The second talk was Kevin Pulo's description of [Syzix][syzix] in the Systems
Administration Miniconf. Syzix is a package manager which supports installing
and using multiple versions of software packages. Unlike some other similar
systems Syzix does not use symlinks to manage globally "active" packages, but
uses the `$PATH`, `$LD_LIBRARY_PATH`, and other environment variables to
control the active versions of packages for individual processes.

[syzix]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#kevin_pulo

How OSS technology to help UTS:IT to build a virtualized networking lab
=======================================================================

The third talk I saw was Li Bing Chen and James Lucas' Systems Administration
Miniconf talk about building a [virtualised networking laboratory][vnet] at
UTS:IT. They built 5 laboratories, with 24-30 computers each, based on Fedora
Linux with the Xen hypervisor to give students practical experience with
networking on multiple operating systems.

[vnet]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#li_bing_chen_and_james_lucas

Their description of using Xen's PCI and VGA passthrough functionality -- to
allow guest operating systems to access networking hardware and eliminate UI
performance issues using VNC -- were interesting. It sounds like a very
interesting setup, even without the integration with university authentication
systems they described.

SELinux Status Report
=====================

My fourth talk was Russel Coker's status report, come question and answer
session on SELinux in the Advances in Linux Security Miniconf. The general
discussion was interesting but I didn't take much in the way of useful notes,
probably because the sum total of my experience with SELinux has been
relabelling files so Apache can access them on the rare occasion I have to
deal with a RedHat system.

This talk finished rather early, which let me see my last talk before lunch.

The Finer Art of Being a Senior Sysadmin
========================================

Sheeri Cabral's Systems Administration Miniconf [talk][ssa] ([slides][]) about
what it is that makes a senior system administrator "senior" was engaging and
thought provoking. As in the professions, seniority is not based on time in
post but on having internalised the knowledge, strategies and ways of working
that make them more effective.

[ssa]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#sheeri_cabral
[slides]: http://bitly.com/seniorSA

Sheeri listed a number of attributes of senior system administrators (largely
referenced from others) including the reliance on scientific approaches to
diagnosis; creating automated tools and processes; reliance of evidence and
investigation, even in the face of experience; empowering others; building and
using checklists; seeking (and giving) constructive criticism when and where
it's most useful and powerful; communicating and working effectively with
others and many others.

This is the sort of discussion that makes me believe that we'll have a *real*
profession one day; one that's on par with lawyers, teachers, doctors and
engineers.

OzLabs.org: Administering a system for "smart people"
=====================================================

Martin Schwenke and Stephen Rothwell gave a talk in the Systems Administration
Miniconf where they described their approach to [administering a system with
adept users][smart]. It largely seemed to boil down to making use of symlinks,
"`.d` directories" and other techniques to allow users to manage the
configuration of services (like BIND, Postfix, Dovecot and Apache) without
needing admin intervention (or even to use root access).

[smart]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#martin_schwenke_and_stephen_rothwell

Configuration Management with Ansible
=====================================

[Daniel Hall's talk about Ansible][ansible] in the Systems Administration
Miniconf was interesting, though it left me feeling as dubious as my previous
exposure to the tool. For all of the simplified model (compared to Chef,
Puppet, etc.) the things that go *in* Ansible's YAML files don't look that
much better than "ssh in a for loop" to me, though significantly more
documented, repeatable, etc.

[ansible]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#daniel_hall

Security Models Running Amok
============================

I recall finding bits of Casey Schaufler's talk about security models in the
Advances in Linux Security Miniconf (which he organised) interesting in
places, but didn't take any notes.

The agony and ecstasy of CI: a war story
========================================

After afternoon tea I saw Stewart Smith's Developer Automation and Continuous
Integration Miniconf talk about introducing continuous integration into an
existing team. The strategy he described made the whole process sound easier
than it, no doubt, was but the wins sounded very impressive. The focus on
small steps, making steady progress to improving quality and visibility as
efficiently as possible will certainly affect the way I work on CI projects in
future.

Stewart also uttered some of the most memorable phrases of the conference
including such gems as:

> Realistically, Jenkins is the only reason Java should exist anymore.

and 

> Compared to cmake, m4 is wonderful.

Securing Linux with SELinux
===========================

The last talk I saw on Monday was Sander van Vugt's [introduction to
SELinux][ise] in the Systems Administration Miniconf. As mentioned above my
experience with SELinux can be summed up in a few dozen words, so this was all
pretty new material for me. The typical size of an SELinux policy surprised me
a little, but it was good to learn a little more about an important technology
(though I'm not sure I'd ever choose to implement MAC myself).

[ise]: http://sysadmin.miniconf.org/presentations13.html#sander_van_vugt

Evening
=======

On Monday evening I attended a cloud meetup (I think) sponsored by some
cloud-related companies at the Wig & Pen.
