---
title: FP-Syd, April 2013
tags: functional programming, meetup
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: 
  The April 2013 meeting of the FP-Syd group had presentations about
  Accelerate and the Free data structure.
---

There were two presentations this month:

1. Accelerate; GPGPU

2. Presentation two

# Accelerate

General purpose GPU programming to use graphics cards for something other than
playing games.

GPGPU - uses single program multiple data (data parallelism); all cores run
the same program on different data. Accelerate is a domain-specific language
for GPU programming in Haskell; it generates CUDA code and invokes the
external compiler during compilation.

Accelerate computations operate on arrays. Array types have two parameters:

- Shape dimensionality : `Z :. Int :. Int`; a value of this type specifies the
  size in these dimensions.

- Element type. Instances of the `Elt` type class.

`Acc` is the type constructor of the DSL. Accelerate provides functions over
collections of arrays.

	-- Inject Arrays into the Accelerate 
    use :: Arrays arrays => arrays -> Acc arrays

    -- Extract results
    run :: Arrays => Acc a -> a

    A.map :: (Shape sh, Elt a, Elt b)
          => (Exp a -> Exp b)
          -> Acc (Array sh a)
          -> Acc (Array sh b)

Accelerate is a stratified language:

- `Acc a` represents collective operaitons over instances of `Arrays`.

- `Exp a` represents scalar computation on things of type `Elt`.

Lots of typeclass instancing as you'd expect in a Haskell EDSL ("deeply
embedded" event); with slightly different names for stuff that can be
overloaded (e.g. boolean operations).

    constant :: Elt e => e -> Exp e

    unit :: Exp e -> Acc (Scalar e)

Fold has the type you'd expect:

    fold :: (Shape sh, Elt a)
         => (Exp a -> Exp a -> Exp a)
         -> EXp a
         -> Acc (Array (sh:.Int) a)
         -> Acc (Array sh a)

Assuming you realise that it's evaluated in parallel and the operation must be
associative.

# Presentation Two

The `Free` data type is a multi-purpose tool.

- Program transformations

- Giving you free code (deriving things automatically)

A free foo is the simplest thing that satisfies all the 'foo' laws.

Free monad: Functor with Monad.

> Left adjoint to a forgetful functor.

Free as a datatype just like a monad with `Pure` for return and `Free` for
join:

    data Free f a = Pure a
    			  | Free (f (Free f a))


> Data types a la carte

