---
layout: post
title: "AWS Summit: First week on EC2"
tags: aws, amazon, infrastructure, ops
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: Notes from the "First week on EC2" talk.
---

James Bromberger talking about the first week on EC2.

# Day 1

- AWS

    - Region

        - AZ

        	- Instance


Choose an AMI - quick start includes images which Amazon have curated. Includes
a bunch of Linux distributions

Select instance size.

Set instance metadata - name, tags, etc. - which can be exposed to management
tools, etc.

Create an SSH keypair - either use AWS to generate one, or generate your own
and upload the public key.

Security group - network security policy to apply to the instance.

Usually SSH as a non-root user which has been provisioned with the SSH key and
privileged to access sudo, etc.

We node have a single server running MySQL, etc. in a single AZ in a single 
region.

# Day 2 - tiered architecture

Snapshot our EC2 instance and use it to create an AMI. Use the "Create Image" 
in the AWS EC2 console.

Give (only) the web security group access to the RDS.

Download the client certificate and use that to connect to RDS.

# Day 3 - monitoring

Amazon CloudWatch to automatically monitors metrics about RDS (which is 
managed) and external metrics for EC2 instances.

Create an alarm: select the metric to monitor - write latency, etc. - and 
define a threshold on that metric. Time period and averaging method.

# Day 4 - high availability

Every region has at least two availability zones. Deploy the EC2 instance and 
RDS database in two AZs with load balancing.

Create a new load balancer with port, etc. Configure health checks for backends
and add instances to the load balancing group.

Configure auto-scaling using the AWS command-line interface `aws autoscaling`.
Use the AMI we created earlier as the target.

Reconfigure our RDS instance to be multi-AZ using the command line. It works
automatically.

# Day 5

Route53 is managed, scalable DNS hosting.

IAM: create a group and grant permissions to it.

CloudFormer will look at your existing resources and produce a CloudFormation 
specification.


# Notes

http://media.amazonwebservices.com/AWS_Operational_Checklist.pds

# SKA

- Observe dark ages.
- 10,000 times faster at scanning the sky than existing telescopes.
- Search for gravity waves.
- Cosmic magnetism via effect on radio emmissions.

Multiple Pb/s of data coming out of telescopes.

Image: 28,000 x 28,000 x 40,000 channels x 4 ~= 125 TB

Mag: stokes params, etc. = x 5

13,000 km stack of blue ray disks. WA coast is shorter than that.

Can't store all the data, Can't build a supercomputer fast enough to process 
it all.

IKRA has a github account with infrastructure code.

BOINC (coordinator for ) crash under load, restore it.
