---
title: Stupid QANTAS
tags: life, flying, travel
---

I've been flying with <a href="http://www.virginblue.com.au/">Virgin Blue</a>
since they started and if I had any lingering doubts about returning to <a
href="http://www.qantas.com.au/">QANTAS</a>, this past weekend has resolved
them. The only problem that flying with Virgin Blue causes is that they only
fly into Launceston, a two hour drive from home. To make it easier, I decided
to fly QANTAS into Devenport instead. I will not be making the same mistake
again.

I caught a <a href="http://canberracabs.com.au/">taxi</a> to the <a
href="http://www.canberraairport.com.au/">airport</a> at 12:10 and checked in
to find that my flight had been cancelled, but I'd be able to get the next
flight after that and still make my connection. This was fine with me, it just
meant I'd be spending the hour wait at Canberra instead of Melbourne. We landed
in Melbourne at 14:25 (the time my next flight was supposed to start boarding)
and I rushed to the departures screen to determine which gate my next flight
departed from, only to find that it too had been cancelled.

I eventually found a customer service desk with staff and discovered that, yet
again, I'd have to catch a later flight. In an attempt, I suppose, to make up
for some of the inconvenience they gave me a voucher to get a meal. Melbourne
airport is a particularly boring place, though the numerous and frequent
announcements about delayed, rescheduled, redirected, reassigned and cancelled
flights did keep me (and the throngs of other affected passengers) somewhat
entertained.

At the end of the day, QANTAS got me to Devenport more than three and a half
hours later than my itinerary (booked not three days previous) stated, thereby
inconveniencing myself and my family and resolving any doubt in my mind as to
whether I'd be returning to QANTAS.

At the other end of the spectrum, the QANTAS ground and cabin crew were
pleasant and helpful. It's a pity their logistics aren't as good as their
service.
