---
layout: post
title: On a Mac
tags: apple, computers
wordpressid: 1554
wordpressurl: http://passingcuriosity.com/2005/on-a-mac/
---

I like this. I'm sitting here at my desk in my room at [Burgmann College][1]
(paid for by the RSISE as part of my Summer Research Scholarship). I've just
posted an entry on my other 'blog (*Very Big Graphs*, the content is now
integrated with *this* blog) to the effect that I've just discovered that I
needn't have done a lot of the work I have done and that, had I read the
documentation for the library I'm using, I would've known that.

[1]: http://burgmann.anu.edu.au/ "Burgmann College: The Place To Be"

The part of this situation that I like is that I only realised this because
I've been working in Xcode on my new iBook for the last two days. The iBook is
seriously cool. If anyone on the OS X team ever reads this: you rock (and
could you tell the hardware engineers to read this next bit). If anyone of the
Apple engineering team ever reads this: you rock (and could you tell the OS X
people to read that last bit). This is probably, of all the computers I've
owned, my favourite.

The only problem is the I now have the urge to switch completely: the [Mac
mini](http://apple.com.au/macmini/) is looking quite tempting. I'll be able to
hold out for a while (primarily due to a lack of disposable income), but once
I've got my enrolment, accommodation and various other fees out of the way, I
think that some small part of my scholarship might become available for
conversion to a more solid, white, Mac branded form.

Another benefit is the software. I'm starting to get used to everything "just
working". Unfortunately there are a few bugs in some things I've been using
(like Bibdesk, a bibTeX database editor), but on the whole, I like it.
