---
title: A Humanities Kick...
---

<!-- TODO -->

I seem to be on a bit of a humanities kick... I've recently read <a
href="http://troacss.blogspot.com/2005/07/more-freakonomics.html">a book on
economics</a> and <a
href="http://troacss.blogspot.com/2005/04/dirt-cheap.html">a book on the
working poor</a>, am currently reading a <a
href="http://www.cambridge.org/uk/catalogue/catalogue.asp?isbn=0521626544">book</a>
on linguistics and most of the feeds I read on anthropology and related
disciplines. To make matters worse, I've just bought a handful of *new* books
on media (<a href="http://www.mup.unimelb.edu.au/catalogue/0-522-85207-6.html"
style="font-style: italic;">Barons to Bloggers</a>, series editor Jonathan
Mills), "social issues" (<a
href="http://www.allenandunwin.com/Shopping/ProductDetails.aspx?ISBN=1741146712"
style="font-style: italic;">Affluenza</a>, Clive Hamilton and Richard Denniss),
immigration/politics (<a
href="http://www.panmacmillan.com.au/display_title.asp?ISBN=0975076965&Author=Corlett,%20David"
style="font-style: italic;">Following them Home</a>, David Corlett) and more
media (<a
href="http://www.panmacmillan.com.au/display_title.asp?ISBN=0975076949&Author=Manne,%20Robert%20(Ed)"
style="font-style: italic;">Do Not Disturb: Media and Aust Politics</a>, editor
Robert Manne).

I've been meaning to buy *Affluenza* and *Following them Home* since I heard
about them (probably on <a href="http://www.triplej.net.au/safran/">Sunday
Night Safran</a> or <a href="http://www.triplej.net.au/hack/">Hack</a>, both
shows on Australia's national youth radio station: <a
href="http://www.triplej.net.au/">JJJ</a>) and only, by chance, there they were
along with two other interesting looking books.

I need to stop going into bookshops...
