---
title: The Gold Falcon
tags: books, fantasy
---

I went into town today and saw that Katherine Kerr's new book [The Gold
Falcon][1] is out. I'm just over fifty pages in so far, and I've already
squee'd twice (something I'm not generally disposed to doing).

[1]: http://www.amazon.com/dp/0007128703/

**Update:** One thing that is different about The Gold Falcon compared to
Kerr's earlier books is a distinct lack of parts and chapters.

Earlier volumes in the Deverry series had, to the best of my recollection, a
normal proportion of chapters for novels of their length and were typically
divided into several parts each set in a different era as events required, or
invited, the introduction of some historical context. The Gold Falcon, on the
other hand, has a few pages to reintroduce the central plot (about which is
constructed several hundred years of engrossing stories and characters) and a
single part spanning the current era and some 400-odd pages. No chapters, no
detours through eras past, nothing.

**Finally:** Having finished the book, I'm struck by just how much I like
Katherine Kerr's writing. I found myself, with every revelation, thinking "I
remember him, or her, or that;" I could identify the origins of her characters
by their patterns of speech; I could foresee some of the problems the
characters encountered but the eventual outcome (of the next few books) is
still very far from obvious.

One point that did occur to me is that if I hadn't been reading the Deverry
books for years I might think that certain aspects were somehow inspired by
recent events. The desire of the main martyrdom expressed by Alshandra's
worshippers and the problem of dealing with them is reminiscent of
fundamentalist Moslem suicide bombers and the problems (or, more accurately,
failures) that Western countries have had in responding to them.

All up, this is another awesome book in the Deverry series. It takes a bit of a
departure from the previous books in its structure, but the end of the saga is
in sight.
