---
title: Teaching; A First Reaction
tags: teaching, education, practical
---

Today was the first day of my first block of professional experience at
a high-school in Tasmania. I'm teaching a unit on [Pythagoras'
Theorem][1] (which states that the square of the hypotenuse of a right
triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides
usually written: $a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}$) to two classes.

[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_theorem

I introduced the topic by drawing a right triangle on the board,
labelling its angles A, B, and C in ascending order, then labelling the
sides a, b, and c after their opposite angle. C is obviously the right
angle, and c is the hypotenuse. I then stated the proposition that:
$a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}$ illustrated that proposition by way of drawing a
triangle $abc$ with a square of the appropriate size on each side and
proposed that we would, as a group, be proving that it is true (that it
is a theorem).

I introduced the students to two different dissection proofs of
Pythagoras' Theorem:

1. The first dissects two squares $(a+b)^2$, one into $a^2$, $b^2$ and
   four triangles $0.5ab$; and the other into $c^2$ and four triangles
   $0.5ab$. We can describe the relationship between the areas of the
   two squares as $a^{2}+b^{2}+2ab = c^{2}+2ab$. The $2ab$ on each side
   cancel each other out (being trivially equal) and we are left with
   $a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}$.  Q.E.D.

2. The second proof beings with a diagram of the square $c^{2}$ (drawn
   using four right triangles arranged within a square $(a+b)^{2}$). If
   we draw within the $c^{2}$ four right triangles arranged to leave a
   gap in the centre (a square of $(b-a)^{2}$). These five pieces taken
   from $c^{2}$ can be rearranged to form $a^{2}+b^{2}$. Q.E.D.

These two proofs can be seen at the [Digital Mathematics Archive's page
of dissection proofs of Pythagoras' Theorem][2]. The first proof can be
seen in the second diagram on that page, and the second proof is
illustrated (in the same way I explained it) in the sixth diagram. Both
classes managed to complete both of these proofs in just over 40
minutes, though I think that the first group may have suffered due to my
nervousness.

[2]: http://www.sunsite.ubc.ca/DigitalMathArchive/Euclid/java/html/pythagorasdissection.html

My colleague teacher (who usually teaches these classes) gave me a lot
of feedback on my performance. I managed to miss many, many, *many* of
the little bits and pieces that keep things together:

1. introducing myself;

2. beginning with a question (to find out what they already know and get
   them thinking about the topic);

3. writing pertinent terms on the board (like "Pythagoras' Theorem" for
   example);

4. structuring the lesson into 'direction' and 'doing' blocks
   effectively; and

5. three pages of other bits and pieces.

Hopefully, I'll be able to resolve most of them by the end of this two
week placement.
