---
title: My First Lesson
tags: education, teaching, practicum, science
---

I taught my first lesson of PE2 in a year ten science class today. Last
term they began a physics unit on forces and today, to help review what
they learnt last term and introduce some new material, I spent a lesson
working with them on the subject of  mass, weight, and gravity. I had
them use spring balances and sets of weights to measure the force of
Earth's gravity (~9.8 newtons). They then weighted themselves (and/or
each other) and calculated the weight of their own mass on other
planets.

I think that the lesson could have gone better, but my colleague teacher
was fairly happy with it. I would have liked it if they had been more
interested in what I thought would be an interesting topic and activity,
but they did seem to get what I wanted to teach out of it. The main
thing that came out of it for me is that I still need to work on ways to
manage students, particularly my voice. I speak and shout (in the "speak
loudly" sense, of course) in from my throat and mouth rather than my
chest, so talking for longer periods tends to give me a sore throat,
never mind having to control a distracted class.

On the planning front, we've decided that I'll need to get my unit on
computer hardware for the IT class ready for us to review on Monday
before I start teaching it next week. When I'm finished this post, I'm
going to go and revise the plans for my <a
href="http://sketchup.google.com/">Sketch Up</a> unit to include some
design theory content and a possible excursion and to fit in the shorter
time span I'll have to teach it.

I might have the opportunity to take part in a professional development
activity on anger management tomorrow morning depending on spaces, etc.,
which will be good (though I'm not sure when I was last 'angry').
