---
title: A Week Accompli
tags: education, teaching, practicum, cad
---

The last day of my first week began with the IT class talking about
web-page design and <a
href="http://www.adobe.com/products/dreamweaver/">Dreamweaver</a>. The
discussion about "the aspects that make a web-page good or bad" did not,
in my opinion, go as well as it might have &mdash; many questions went
unanswered and when they were, the responses tended to be focus more on
content than design. Whether this was a result of the natural reticence
of adolescents to single themselves out by volunteering the answer to a
question or a lack of sophistication in their current understanding of
design, usability and aesthetic appeal, I'm not sure.

In the second lesson of the day, the science group continued thinking
about gravity. In particular, they looked at the formula for the
magnitude of the attraction between two masses and the role both the
masses and the distance between them has in determining the force
exerted. One thing that I'll need to bear in mind during future science
teaching is the utility of diagrams as a pedagogical device. Getting a
student to draw a diagram of a situation and the forces at play really
helped explain buoyancy to them.

During the <acronym title="Computer Aided Design">C.A.D.</acronym>
lesson, the group finished off their current project and many of them
began looking at <a href="http://sketchup.google.com/">SketchUp</a> in
anticipation of next week. Judging by their performance today, the next
two or three weeks (I'm not sure if this class will be affected by the
impending time table change) will be interesting for them and me both.
If all goes well, there will soon be a few more objects in the <a
href="http://sketchup.google.com/3dwarehouse/">Google 3D Warehouse</a>.
