---
title: The Teaching Begins
tags: education, teaching, practicum, science, it
---

The second week of PE2 began with my colleague teacher off ill. This was
a little inconvenient, but everything went well with the relief teacher.
In the science lesson first up, the students had plenty of work to do on
their inquiry projects which are due this Friday, but we could only use
the computer lab for the first half of the period. This left some of
them with little to do for half a lesson, but on the whole, they were on
task and much more settled than they were during the lesson I taught
last week.

During the two periods between recess and lunch, we had maths and both
classes went quite well. Some of the students got their assignments on
perimeter, area, volume and surface area handed in, whilst others will
[hopefully] have them finished for my colleague teacher's return
tomorrow. Many of the students that hadn't finished managed to get it
polished off, and all of them worked relatively well, so it was good.

During the final period, I took my first IT class. As the grade tens
were attending a whole grade event, I had the ninth grade students from
mine and two other classes. As it was a one-off, I took them through a
<a href="http://earth.google.com/">Google Earth</a> my colleague teacher
had ready. The students has to locate a number of features ranging from
relatively easy (just type it in a Google Earth will find it for you) to
more challenging (such as streets in towns Google Earth doesn't know
about). All up I thought that it went pretty well, especially with the
potential for disturbance posed by the mixture of three classes
together.

After school ended there was a general staff meeting which, while
interesting, I have no intention of writing about here.
