---
title: QMAP Day
tags: education, teaching, practicum
---

Today was the first day of my second practicum which I shall spend at
Ulverstone High School. It was also a pupil free day, whether by
coincidence or by design, I am unsure. During the course of the day, the
teachers of the Central Coast cluster gathered at Penguin High School to
participate in the Quality Assurance and Moderation Process. The day was
broken up into three sessions -- two of moderating the assessment of
work samples, and one of professional development.

During the first moderation session I was part of a group looking at
work samples to be assessed for Being Numerate. We assessed a number of
work samples from a class activity based on identifying patterns,
finding rules and synthesising symbolic expressions of those rules. It
was a relatively straightforward process and the group achieved
consensus fairly easily in most of the cases.

During the second session, we looked as two work sampled assessed under
<acronym>Being Information Literate<acronym>. As I experienced doing
<acronym>QMAP</acronym> during PE1, everyone seems to have their own
interpretation of the <acronym>BIL</acronym> standards and progression
statements. The requirements about the safe, ethical, etc., use of
information especially seems to cause much strife - why, some ask,
should an other wise excellent piece of work be relegated to standard
two just for a lack of referencing? In any case, it took us quite a
while and a number of deviations from the <acronym>QMAP</acronym>
protocol to come to a decision.

In the afternoon, I worked with a group of secondary teachers on "good
questions" in numeracy. We used [Bloom's Taxonomy][1] along with the
<acronym>Being Numerate</acronym> standards to explore questions we
might ask of, and explore with, students about the concepts of money and
finance. The suggestions and discussions we had were quite interesting.

[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloom's_Taxonomy
