---
title: Teaching; A Second Reaction
tags: education, teaching, practicum
---

My second day of teaching went quite a bit better than the first. I
managed to address quite a few of the points my colleague teacher raised
yesterday as well as improving my structure and delivery. Where
yesterday the way I presented the examples and instructions wasn't as
effective as it should have been introducing a new unit of work (I think
that I was still stuck in 'university seminar' mode rather than
'high-school lesson' mode), I think that the main thing lacking today
was the polish that will come with experience. One reflection of this is
that the comments provided by my colleague teacher amount to
one-and-a-bit pages today rather than the three pages of notes on
yesterday's lessons.

The most glaring omissions yesterday were:

1. my lack of action toward learning the students names;

2. my poor use of the whiteboard to reinforce and record explanations;
   and

3. the structure of the lesson.

I started addressing the first two points more adequately today, but I
need to pay more attention to the third. One way this came out was in my
use of examples. As my colleague teacher pointed out to me, we should
use examples and explanations to 'scaffold' the students understanding:
we explain a concept; they practice it; we extend the concept; they
practice this extension... Today, I explained a concept (deriving the
length of one side of a right triangle given the length of the other two
sides), and then asked them to do some problems about concept that is
not related (or, rather, not related in a way immediately obvious to
high-school students). This resulted in a bit of confusion which I
needed to resolve by explaining in a lot more detail.

Tomorrow, I'll try to focus on my structure ('scaffolding' is the key
word here) and learning the students' names.
