---
title: Podcasts
tags: podcasts, recommended
---

Playing with Del.icio.us in the sidebar made me realise that I really
ought to list the podcasts that I subscribe to. Here then is a list of
my listening habits:

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/feeds/mind.xml">All in the Mind</a>
from <a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/">ABC Radio National</a> Delving into
all things mental: the latest research and expert commentary on our brains and
behaviour.

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/feeds/bwriting.xml">Books and
Writing</a> from <a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/">ABC Radio National</a>.
Books and Writing is the foremost national literary program broadcast
throughout Australia. It features in-depth discussions focusing on books, ideas
and writing.

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/feeds/bdn.xml">By Design</a> from <a
href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/">ABC Radio National</a> Alan Saunders looks at
how we shape our world, from the ground up.

<a href="http://feeds.feedburner.com/doctorow_podcast">Craphound.com: The
Literary Works of Cory Doctorow</a> by Cory Doctorow Short-stories in progress
by an award-winning science fiction writer, read aloud in small regular chunks.

<a href="http://www.nature.com/nature/podcast/rss/nature.xml">The Nature
Podcast</a> The Nature Podcast provides insight and context to groundbreaking
research, and allows the scientists to explain the significance of their work
in their own words.

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/feeds/ockham.xml">Ockham's Razor</a>
from <a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/">ABC Radio National</a> Thoughtful
people have their say, without interruption, on important science-related
topics.

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/feeds/science.xml">The Science
Show</a> from <a href="http://www.abc.net.au/rn/">ABC Radio National</a> RN's
science flagship: your essential source of what's making news in the complex
world of scientific research, scandal and discovery.

<a href="http://triplej.net.au/safran/podcast/safran.xml">Sunday Night
Safran</a> from <a href="http://triplej.net.au/" title="Triple J - Australia's
national youth radio station">Triple J</a> John Safran and his guests
(including regular Father Bob) talk an amusing mix of religion and politics.
We've taken the program, and edited the music out to a 60-70min program.

<a href="http://www.abc.net.au/triplej/rawcomedy/podcast/podcast.xml">Raw
Comedy</a> from <a href="http://triplej.net.au/" title="Triple J - Australia's
national youth radio station">Triple J</a> We bring you selected highlights
from the Raw Comedy Festival heats and finals from around the country. These
range in length (and quality) but are usually no longer than ten minutes.
