---
title: Long time no blog
tags: books, TAPL, ATTAPL, logic
---

It's been quite a while since last I posted (here, or anywhere else), so I
think it's about time for an update. Things are going adequately on the school
front -- it was a little touch and go, but I managed not to fail anything last
semester -- and I'm about to start a support job with a research project which
will bring a welcome injection of funds (which have been rather tight lately).

On the "reading" front, I purchased my copy of [Advanced Topics in Types and
Programming Languages](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/attapl/index.html)
(companion and somewhat successor to
[TAPL](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/tapl/index.html)) this morning. I've
had a bit of a flick through it and it looks really, *really* interesting.
Hopefully having spent almost $200 on the two books will provide an added
incentive to not only start, but finish, reading them and hopefully even work
through the problems.

I've been thinking about typography and book design lately which has
suggested, amongst other things, that I see if it'd be possible to get my copy
of ATTAPL rebound with some extra pages. It would be nice, for example, to
insert the extended version of [chapter 10 - the essence of ML type
inference](http://cristal.inria.fr/attapl/) and to "fix" any errata with
updated pages. I imagine, though I haven't bothered to investigate at all,
that this'd be quite a difficult and expensive thing to do for a single copy,
so it'll probably be a long while before I do it, if ever.

Before that though, I've been focussed on getting through
[Logic](http://consequently.org/logic/) by [Greg
Restall](http://consequently.org/). I'm almost half way through and while I'd
have preferred a slightly difference syntax (I prefer `&and;` as conjunction,
rather than `&amp;`), it's easy to read and is much more accessible than most
other books I've seen with titles like "Logic".
