---
title: An Experiment in Social Media Stuff
tags: meetup, event, atheism
---

I'm a member of the [Perth Atheists meet-up](http://www.perthatheists.org/) and
we had our monthly get together at the [Flying
Scotsman](http://flyingscotsman.com.au/) in Mount Lawley tonight. Instead of
the usual short talk (which are always entertaining, informative, excellent and
awesome) this week was for "housekeeping" -- namely talking about what sort of
group we want to be. The "housekeeping" label might have had something to do
with the slightly reduced numbers, but the discussion was good nonetheless,
with some excellent views and ideas of who and what and how our little group
can grow and be and do *something*.

<!--more-->

One avenue that was reasonably obvious to all (it is, after all, a meeting
organised through a web-site) is an online presence to call our own: a web-site
with some form of "easy-to-use" CMS or blogging platform installed and
integrated with the various social media widgets that all the cool kids are
using these days. Given that I work as a web-developer, I've put my hand up to
help make a go of it.

There's already a domain name
[perthatheists.org](http://www.perthatheists.org/) and hosting and people
enough who can generate at least a little content, so we'll probably start
simple with a blog (probably WordPress), a bit of social network integration --
post to *X*, link on *Y*, a Twitter bot, etc. -- and an e-mail list. In the
next month or two we'll probably launch a small campaign or two like [Read Your
God Damn Bible](http://www.readyourgoddamnbible.com/) and the [Gideon Removal
Project](http://gideonremoval.godlessheathens.org.uk/).

In the mean time, a few of us will get to work preparing some content,
developing a web-site, socialising the media, and hooking it all up to the
intertubes. This time next month, we'll have us a web-site.
