---
title: UML Statecharts meeting in Perth
tags: meetup, event, uml, states
---

Last night I went to my second (or third, does the first "yes, we should"
meeting count?) meeting of the [Perth UML State Charts reading group][1].
Curtin University is a bit of a trek for me (two busses out and three busses
back; each trip takes around an hour), but at least I didn't wind up walking
after getting off half way there! Unlike the first meeting (which was primarily
about the book), we spent most of *this* meeting talking about projects and
interesting things that we've seen around. What follows is in no particular
order, and just a taste of the discussions (hooray for a poor memory).

I'd just installed the [Arduino][2], so I got that up on the projector for
those who hadn't seen it before and talked a little bit about the goals of the
Arduino project and how that has affected the implementation. Talking about the
libraries and the "shield" approach helped solidify it in my mind a little and
it's an interesting approach to this sort of development that seems new to some
of the others (who're familiar with *real* embedded development). I also
explained a few things about Haskell and the approach (as I understand it; i.e.
"poorly") used in the [atom][3] library. I'm planning to have some more to say
(*show*!) about using Haskell to implement hierarchical state-machines next
fortnight.

Harry spoke about his numbatcam project (which he also [talked about at Perth
Barcamp 2009][4]) in a bit more details and showed us some of the code. He
mentioned the idea of reducing the duplication of states (one of the reasons we
use *hierarchical* state-machines is to reduce the state explosion inherent in
other state-machine formalisms) involved in his handling of setting the current
time and the alarm time (each is an arrangement of a few states and transitions
which are identical, other than their differing parent states).

I suggested that it would be possible, in a framework which supports orthogonal
state-machines (multiple machines which run concurrently and independently of
one another), to implement a "time chooser" state-machine and replace the
current duplication with `waitingToSetTime` and `waitingToSetAlarm` states
which have an entry action (posting a `SET_TIME(curr)` event) and a single
transition on `TIME_SET(new)` events. Given that the UI state-machine is can be
in either the `waitingToSetTime` or the `waitingToSetAlarm` states, then the
"time chooser" state-machine can handle the entire choose-a-time interaction
and then post the `TIME_SET(new)` event to the UI state-machine and whichever
state it's currently in can set the time or the alarm as it wishes. Alas, the
framework used in the numbatcam doesn't support orthogonal state-machines
(easily).

Russell spoke about the doorbell system he'd been working on as a learning
exercise. Rather than just play a sound every time the button is pressed,
Russell's doorbell incorporates a "polite pause" a light and a buzzer (to deal
with those annoy people who feel the need to press the button repeatedly).
Though just a learning exercise, it was certainly an interesting one. Even more
interesting was his hierarchical state-machine-based hierarchical state-machine
generator! Based on a description of a hierarchical state-machine description
in emacs outline format (plus some support code), his project will generate the
C code implementing the state-machine. Even more impressive, it's implemented
in exactly the same framework as the programs it generates. The only way he can
make it more awesome would be to treat the current version as a bootstrap, and
generate the next version from a state-machine description (to "eat his own dog
food" so to speak).

In any case, there's lots of interesting stuff going on in the group. I'm
looking forward to the next meeting.

[1]: http://groups.google.com/group/statechartsperth
[2]: http://www.arduino.cc/
[3]: http://hackage.haskell.org/package/atom
[4]: /2009/statecharts-and-numbats/
