---
title: "PyconAU 2012: Natural language processing"
tags: event, PyconAU 2012, natural language, nltk, python
location: Hobart, Tasmania
excerpt: Notes from a talk at Pycon AU 2012.
---

"Human as a Second Language: Succeeding (and failing) with the Natural
Language Toolkit" 

[Natural Language Toolkit](http://nltk.org/)

General ho-hum generalisations of overly logical, Spock-ish stereotypes of
"programmers". Abstraction, gender, disincentive to creative natural langauge,
etc.

NLTK is, like most toolkits, a bunch of tools and resources; bridges the gap
between science and art (linguistic, presumably).

Language Features 101
---------------------

- Stopwords

   The common but semantically unimportant words. Generally remove stopwords
   when doing statistical tasks.

- Parts of speech

   High-school grammar: nouns, adjectives/adverbs, verbs. N, ADJ, ADV, V.

   Also: a bunch more.

- Stemming

   Reduce words to their stem, so you can unify various forms; generally for
   statistical techniques.

- Lemmatization

   Similar to stemming, but results in a real word.

NLP Concepts
------------

- Training data

   Copora for English language words (stopwords), Boys' names, Girls' names,
   tagging part of speech.

   Wordnet linked dictionary.

- Tokenisation

   Split a document into individual parts. The particular type of "part" will
   vary depending on the task (words, sentences, etc.)

   Many different tokenisation algorithms for different situations.

Applications
------------

Sentiment analysis and opinion mining. Targeting advertising.

Establish patterns in language used to make guesses about the person talking:
gender, age, etc.

Integration with BeautifulSoup for something to do with HTML? Not sure why
you'd bother.

Chatbots: @PatrickAndElly use Twitter interface (Python Twitter Tools):

1. Tokenise words.
2. PoS tag.
3. Simply tagging (because too much grammar is too much).
4. 
