---
title: Notes from FP-Syd May 2013
tags: event, fp-syd, meetup, functional programming, scala, haskell, variance, monoids
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: 
  The May 2013 meeting of the FP-Syd functional programming group in Sydney
  heard talks about variance in Scala, monoids, and optimising pure loops.
---

Sounds like BayHAC was interesting.

# Jed on variance (in Scala)

Variance is essentially about substitution or sub-typing. A thing that produces
a `Super` may be replaced with a thing that takes `Sub`. A think that that 
takes `Sub` may be replaces by a thing that takes `Super.

> `Rat -> Real <: Int -> Complex`

Reference to 

> Be liberal in what you accept and conservative in what you produce.

Use site variance in Java

    final function Option<a>

In Scala:

    List[+A]

    Function[-T1, +R]

    Kleisli[M[+_], -A, +B]

Eg:

	class GPar
	class Par extends GPar
	class Child extends Par

    class Box[+A]

    def foo(x:Bor[Par]): 

    foo(Box[Child])
    foo(Box[GPar]) // error


f

	trait Box[+A] {
		def get: A
		def take(a: A) // Error
	}

	trait Box[-A] {
		def get: A
		def take(a: A)
	}


Functor

    trait Functor[F[_]] {
    	def map[A,B](a: F[A])(f: A => B): F[B]
    }

This is actually a contra-variant functor.

    trait Contravariant[F[_]] {
    	def contramap[A,B](r: R[A])(f: B=>A): F[B]
    }

Variance in mutable values:

> Two type variables. One goes up (things coming out?), one goes down (things
> going in?).

http://biosimilarity.blogspot.com.au/2011/05/of-monads-and-games.html


# Tim on monoid

    class Monoid a where
        mempty :: a
        mappend :: a -> a -> a

Obeys laws

    mappend a mempty == a
    mappend mempty a == a
    mappend a (mappend b c) == mappend (mappend a b) c

Given types may have multiple monoids: numbers have (+, 0) and (*, 1).

Define monoids to do min, max, count on the pattern of `Sum` and `Product`.
Have a smart constructor for each 

The foldable type-class makes fold polymorphic.

    class Foldable t where
        foldMap :: Monoid m => (a -> m) -> t a -> m

Use the monoids we defined earlier:

    foldMap sum as
    foldMap count as
    foldMap max as

The `mappend` operation distributes through structures like tuple types too.
This lets apply multiple monoids with one traversal.

	a2 :: Applicative a => a b -> a c -> a (b, c)
	a2 b c = (,) <$> b <*> c

	> foldMap (a2 min max) as
	(Min 1, Max 456)

This doesn't let us do Mean very nicely. We need to unpack the pair at the end
and calculate the actual

Have an additional `Aggregation` class (superclass of `Monoid`) which has an
associated type for the result which is extracted from the aggregation.

So we can make a version of foldMap which can finish and unwrap the 
aggregation:

    afoldMap :: (Foldable t, Aggregation a) => (v -> a) -> t v -> AggResult a
    afoldMap f vs = AggResult (foldMap f vs)

Combine the aggregation and monoid to apply a filter during the single
traversal.

Two monoids for maps:

1. Replace the values

2. Insist the values are monoids too and append them.

Compose accessors with the "smart" constructors and apply them to calculate
statistics over a stream of records.

# Amos Robinson on optimising purely functional loops

Live at UNSW and looking at some optimisation problems. SpecConstr (constructor
specialisation) is part of GHC (phase? optimisation?); has some problems,
particularly with stream fusion, DPH, etc.

Dot product (pairwise multiple two vectors and sum the results) is a motivating
example. We want to write that as:

    dotp as bs = fold (+) 0 $ zipWith (*) as bs

But we want to actually execute:

    dotp as bs = go 0 0
      where
        go i acc
        | i > V.length as
        = acc
        | otherwise
        = go (i+1) (acc + (as!i * bs!i))

(Assuming that the Ints aren't boxed, etc.)
