---
title: Drupal SEO Functionality
tags: drupal, seo, metadata, modules
location: Sydney, New South Wales
excerpt: 
  Here's a short blurb about various "SEO-ish" functionality for Drupal I wrote
  at work a while ago. It's pretty much just tedious wank for decision makers
  but someone might like it?
---

Some content management systems have a reputation for poor search engine
performance. Drupal, thankfully, is not one of these. With a combination of
core functionality and several contributed modules, any Drupal web-site can
have very good search engine performance.

# URLs

Drupal has the capacity to assign "human friendly URLs" to any page on the
web-site. With the addition of the [Pathauto][] module, we can configure the
site to automatically generate "friendly" URLs based on the titles, dates,
categories, menu hierarchy, or nearly any other property of a piece of content.

The [Global Redirect][] and [Pathologic][] modules can ensure that search
engines and visitors use only the "friendly" URL for a page, reducing or
removing the instance of duplicate content.

[Pathauto]: https://drupal.org/project/pathauto
[Global Redirect]: https://drupal.org/project/globalredirect
[Pathologic]: https://drupal.org/project/pathologic

# Search Engine Integration

The [RobotsTxt][], [XML Sitemap][] and [Site Verification][] modules can help
to support and manage the integration between a Drupal site and various search
engines.

[RobotsTxt]: https://drupal.org/project/robotstxt
[XML Sitemap]: https://drupal.org/project/xmlsitemap
[Site Verification]: https://drupal.org/project/site_verify

# Metadata

The [Metatag][] module allows your Drupal site to manage the metatags embedded
in the code of each page. As with "friendly" URLs, metatags can be controlled
on each individual page or generated automatically from the title, dates, and
other properties of each piece of content.

This module supports a range of metadata standards and formats including Dublin
Core, Facebook Open Graph, Twitter Cards.

[Metatag]: https://drupal.org/project/metatag

# Analytics

The [Google Analytics][] and [Google Analytics Reports][] modules can integrate
support for Google Analytics more deeply into a Drupal web-site. Using these
modules we have fine-grained control of which users and which sections of a site
are tracked and even embed Google Analytics reports directly into the site.

[Google Analytics Reports]: https://drupal.org/project/google_analytics_reports
[Google Analytics]: https://drupal.org/project/google_analytics

# Content

A Drupal web-site can enforce a range of restrictions and requirements on the
content that it manages.

Common concerns are alternate text for images (often called "alt text"),
resizing uploaded images appropriately, restricting formats of uploaded files,
enforcing length requirements.

Domain-specific requirements can also be implemented, if required.

# Markup

The code generated by a Drupal web-site can be customised, as required, to meet
the requirements of a project.

The Drupal theme which implements your custom design will meet search engine
recommendations out of the box, and can be customised to meet SEO requirements
if required.

# Performance

Drupal includes a range of features and considerations which help to improve
page loading times, now an important component of search engine rankings. This
includes the aggregation of Javascript and stylesheet files, content delivery
networks, and a range of application caching solutions.

Drupal web-sites can, depending on specific functionality, have very good
support for HTTP caching and a range of server configuration options which can
improve performance.
