---
title: Linux.conf.au 2016 round-up
tags: event, linux.conf.au, open source
location: Geelong, Victoria
excerpt: 
  Here's a quick run down of the linux.conf.au 2016 talks which stuck
  with me.
---

Two talks -- *Continuous Delivery using blue-green deployments and
immutable infrastructure* and *The Twelve-Factor Container* -- had
some interesting, though not entirely new, things to say about CI/CD
and reliable, sustainable build and operations. If containers and
infrastructure as code are your thing, they might be worth watching.

The two talks about Swift (the OpenStack object storage system, not
the banking system, the programming language, the bird, etc., etc.)
gave a high-level overview of their approach to sharding, metadata
storage, and erasure codes. Sticking with "putting data in places",
Bron Gondwana from Fastmail described *Twoskip*, a single-file
database format based on skip-lists they built for use in their email
infrastructure. The *Dropbox Database Infrastructure* talk felt a tiny
bit "we're hiring" but had some interesting detail about MySQL
tooling.

I really enjoyed the talks from a few people associated with
NICTA/Data 61/CSIRO/UNSW about formal methods, the eChronos real-time
embedded operating system kernel, the SMACCM project, etc. The
functional programming miniconf had some very accessible talks on some
foundational topics (viz. parametric polymorphism, Church encodings,
and "you can actually write production software in Haskell").

I saw two talks on security topics which might be useful (or at least
entertaining) for those of us who aren't specialists. *Using Linux
features to make a hacker's life hard* described a number of things
you can do to a Linux system to make it difficult for attackers to
exploit your systems (for the adversary's point of view see
[*Ain't No Party Like A Unix Party*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o5cASgBEXWY)
from 2013). *Playing to lose* described approaches to thinking about
security which will probably be useful to people designing, building,
and operating systems (i.e. almost all of us).

Finally the stand-out talks of the conference for me were two of the
keynotes. Catarina Mota spoke about open source, open hardware, and
the newer open materials and open technologies movements. The open
source architecture projects she described made me want to build a
house. The last day of the conference opened with a keynote by
Genevieve Bell -- anthropologist, Intel Fellow, and VP of Corporate
Strategy at Intel -- about themes that will likely dominate the way
our technologies create 'the future'. If you watch only one video from
the conference I'd suggest [make it this one][2]!

Most of the videos from the five days of sessions are already
available on the [Linux.conf.au 2016 Youtube channel][1]. No matter
what you're interest in you'll probably find something good in there.

[1]: https://www.youtube.com/user/linuxconfau2016
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QqADuKyBNMc "Genevieve Bell's linux.conf.au 2016 keynote"
