---
---

The new perf subsystem.

`perf_event` is a new kern subsystem that gives you access to the performance
counter in the CPU. Also interface to kernel tracepoints and software events.
Becoming the primary interface for collecting and reporting all sorts of
performance data.

New userspace driver program `perf` provides a simple way to measure program
and system performance.

Supercedes perfmon2, etc.

Initially proposed in Dec 2008

- Posted to LKML
- response to perfmon3 posting

Developed through 2009 in "tip" tree (Ingo, Peter Ingman, etc)

In official Linux 2.6.31 (sep 09

Initiallay supported x86, Paul? did 64-bit POWER processors. Now have support
for SH and sparc64. Most architecture now have basic support (it can be useful
with nothing more than high-res times; just a single system call to
implement).

Concepts
--------

Basic abstraction: a counter for some event. Not the whole PMU (unlike
perfmon2). Was believed to be too complex to teach the kernel to program the
PMU, so left it up to the (one at a time) user.

Counters are a 64-bit value, incremented every time the associated event is
fired.

Types of events:

* Hardware: counted in PMU hardware
* Software: function call placed in kernel code
* Tracepoint
* Hardware data breakpoint registers ("trap when something writes to address
  0XF00BABA2")

Sampling: record information at intervals

* Record information in ring buffer
* Can record IP, timestamp, addresses, etc.
* Can sample every N counts or N per second

Events can be per-task, per-cpu events or both:

* per-task: count only while that task is running.
* per-cpu: monitor performance of the system as a whole [CPU].

Per-task counters can be inherited: on `fork()`, the child process gets a copy
of all inheritable events. Inherited event counts added back into main count
on child exit or on "sync" operation.

The kernel manages the PMU to share it between however many users; schedules
hardware events onto PMU, context-switching per-task counters; round-robin
scheduling if there are too many PMU counters (as many as will fit, then RR);
configures PMU.

This leads to a problem: count L1 cache misses and L1 cache references and use
these numbers to calculate L1 cache hits, but if the two counters are running
at different times, they may be recording different phases of behaviour. Use
event groups to link to counters together so that they will be scheduled
together. Can also "pin" a group and run it always (and error if it can't).

API
===

`perf_event_open()` system call to create a new counter with a struct of
attributes (type, periodicity, what to record, return on read, etc), a few
flags for task, cpu, group, flags, etc. Gives back an fd which you can select,
ioctl, etc.

`ptctl()` can enable/disable all counters we've created.

`sysctl()` variables for security settings and limits.

[on POWER] Self counters can be read directly without a system call. If
hardware permits. On POWER, this uses the user mode instructions to read the
PMU registers directly.