---
layout     : post
title      : Notes on Object-Oriented Programming Sucks
tags       : [lca2010, oplm2010, notes, perl, oo]
categories : [lca]
location   : Wellington, New Zealand
---

OOP sucks in pretty much every language. 

Some [smart] people come up with a solution in SmallTalk and it's been ported
to perl.

**OO's unfulfilled promise of code reuse.** We aren't really reusing code at
the level we could be. It's too hard to reuse code.

What is an object?
------------------

Object = Data + Behaviour

Encapsulation of data

Polymorphism with any object that implements the appropriate interface.

Inheritance? Some people believe it isn't a *necessary* component (but it is
part of the topic of this talk).

What is a class?
----------------

1. A factory which creates objects.
2. A unit of code reuse.

Item (1) implies completeness: it needs to implement the complete set of
behaviours.

Item (2) implied smallness: you want small, flexible easily re-usable
components.

Traits
------

A trait is:

1. a collection of methods.
2. ...
3. pure behaviour.
4. flattened into the classes that "use" the trait.
5. No super class access to the trait (super is of the class, not the trait).
6.
7. Dependencies

Applying traits to the Smalltalk Collections Classes, Black, Schärli, etc.

Reuse through inheritance
-------------------------

1. Single inheritance makes it quite difficult to reuse code. There are few
   (bad) options for sharing between two classes which share a superclass.

2. Multiple inheritance is too evil for Smalltalk, C#, etc. Even PHP! 

3. Mixin inheritance: the order of composition matters. Conflicts are resolved
   silently: if you have two mixins with methods of the same name, one will
   win. They just don't scale.

Traits trump Mixins
-------------------

Conflicts result at compile time. (Note, though, that this is a lie in the
perl context.)

Conflict resolution: class methods win; exclude specific methods; alias trait
methods.

Dependencies: mixins assume, traits require.

In Perl
-------

In perl, they are called "Roles" ("trait" is already used)

Implemented in a CPAN module called Moose.

{% highlight perl %}
package Car;
use Moose;
with 'Breakable';
has 'colour' => (is => 'rw', isa => 'Bool);

# The way objects break is class dependent
sub break {
	my $self = shift;
	$self->is_moving(0) if $self->is_moving;
}
1;
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight perl %}
package Breakable;
use Moose::Role;
requires 'break';
has 'is_broken' => (is => 'rw', isa => 'Bool);
sub break {
	# ...
}

# Is called after the 'break' method that uses this trait
after 'break' => sub {
	my $self = shift;	
	$self->is_broken(1);
}
1;
{% endhighlight %}

Lets get meta
-------------

Moose uses/can use roles in defining classes. 

Python
------

Experimental implementation: Strait. 

http://scg.unibe.ch/research/traits/