---
layout     : post
title      : LCA Keynote 2
tags       : [lca2010, keynote, notes]
categories : [lca]
location   : Wellington, New Zealand
---

Please use the hand sanitizer.

Photographic competition closes for the first section this morning.

Use the wiki.

Use the convention wireless.

Apress give aways: Beginning GIMP, Pro Linux system administration, Practical
Arduino. They had to draw five names.

Keynote
=======

[Gabriella Coleman][gc], Assistant Professor of Media, Culture, and
Communication at New York University. Anthropologist who studies hacker
culture, software development, etc. She *is* lazy and *is* often confused with
students.

[gc]: http://steinhardt.nyu.edu/faculty_bios/view/Gabriella_Coleman

These are the Best of Times and these are the Worst of Times: Free Software
and the Global Politics of Intellectual Property Law.

First expose to F/OSS was accidental: went to friends dorm room to find him
salivating over a CD: Slackware Linux.

Two years later, interested in patents and med. Same friend told about
copyleft. 12 years average PhD. If she wanted to finish, leave faith healing
and take to the Internet.

Field work: Total Cultural Immersion. Rocking up to a group you plan to study
and you'll be around for months or years. This is intimidating. Even in
English, this was hard due to the jargon, etc.

But aren't they just computer fanatics? But informal humour, language punning,
easter eggs, intercal and brainfuck shows that there is hacker culture.

Studied cabals and their supposed lack (There Is Not Cabal). The TINC joke is
part of the culture: reminding those in power to act.

IP Cabal: ACTA Anti-counterfeiting Trade Agreement.

Unprecedented secrecy. Classified, left third world out. Given ACTA's ancestry
is pretty depressing (DMCA, Sony Bono, etc.) But F/OSS and copyleft give at
least a little hope.

Opening lines from a tale of two cities. Never before have we been faced with
so broad a regime, but we've also never had such a bastion as F/OSS and Free
Culture.


1984-1991
---------

Natural starting place: Richard Stallman needs no introduction. Happy hacker
at MIT, but this was crushed by 1984. Interview with Stallman: downtrodden and
resigned (metaphor to fixing your house). He would tell people his wife had
died (though unmarried): he meant access to software.

His dire views didn't eventuate, at least in part, due to Stallman's own effort. 

How was software able to escape the Second Enclosure Movement? Great timing:
if Stallman was five years later, we might not be here. When Stallman had
started his crusade, patents and such hadn't entered the realm of software.

While Stallman was writing Free Software, three trade association forms:
Intellectual Property Committee, International Intellectual Properties
Alliance (IIPA, reps'd MPAA, BSA, etc) ***, Software Publishers Association.

1992-1997
---------

Move to hobbyists: domestic labour, made possible by wide deployment of
Internet access and PCs.

Linux. 

Political F/OSS (Stallman) found its pragmatic counterpart (Linus using it
just for pragmatic reasons).

Programmers becoming far more legally literate. "Code is Law" - Larry Lesig.
Coding is a craft/cultural competency that can translate into legal literacy
and ability.

In 1992, they deemed some copyright infringement were deemed to be felonies.
They launched a bunch of propaganda campaigns.

> Time Warners: Cultural Dark Ages.
> 
> Terrorist groups sell pirate DVDs to raise funds. (the Federations Against
> Copyright Theft)

They fucked shit up with treaties and conventions.

1998-2004
---------

Cygnus, RedHat, etc. made commercial success on F/OSS. Netscape released
Mozilla. People starting telling their manager that yes, our entire business
is running on Debian.

Changing name to Open Source to be more business friendly.

Rendered visible the underlying ethics to a much wider audience.

Move to "Open Source" and the way it helped to promote. CreativeCommons

**Red baiting** MS tried to brand F/OSS "communist" (which is what Obama faces
a lot now). Failed utterly: complete disavowal of political goals, very narrow
future. Using language about helping your neighbour, then free speech.

> OSS poses a direct revenue platform threat.

Superior engineering effort, not an ethical thing anymore.

DMCA passed after lobbying by scum. DeCSS suites and Dmitry being arrested. By
now the trade associations were well aware of F/OSS and were mentioning them.
BSA crowing, blah, blah, blah. But it started solidifying the anti-DMCA
movement.

In 1981: Soul of a new machine. "Clearly, the machine no longer belonged to
its maker."

Similar time, people published the Jargon File as a book because they expected
the culture to die out (to be killed, even).

Pessimism was wrong, but necessary: *because* of the pessimism they were moved
to resist.

Patent "everything under the sun."

These political/legal clashes have kept everything going, even while the
movement was partially gutting itself of its explicit politico-ethical
ideology.

**Clear Sighted Irony** Essay on irony by Randolph Bourne, an American public
intellectual. Don't feel just optimistic or pessimistic. Irony is thus a cure
(blind vs hypnotised).

2004-2010
---------

Web 2.0 discourse (boon and barrier) to talk about IP law.

Questions
=========

Lots of other critics (medical, drugs, life science patents, etc.) but they
are disconnected from us. 