---
title: 3 Lightning Keynotes
---

Technology solves problems. It doesn't and can't, the reason we can't solve
problems is the stupid meat sacks.

----

**Lesson: steer the meatsacks.** 

----

English is an imperative programming language for controlling meatsacks. 12 of
getting shit for the way you make the bed.

Lesson: Tell the smart meatsacks what you want (not step by step
instructions). It's a declarative programming language.

Keynote 2 OSS in NZ
===================

Keynote 3 Predict the Future
============================

Can't do it like O'Reilly (lots of stats people)

1. Straight lines, metaphore, etc

2. Qualify

Well known by science journalists (who may be fuck heads).

3. Self-promote

Very important, because you only need another point to draw your straight
line.

4. Exaggerate

The future is probably going to be like the present (same stupid meatsack) but
they don't want to here it.

5. Mashup

Take two trends, put them together and you've got a third.


Lightning Talks
===============

Selena Deckelmann
-----------------

How a bunch of normal people to repair a rigged election.

Got an email: who wants to go to Nigeria. Went to teach a bunch of new
government workers about PostgreSQL and some apps.

**Step 1**: run for political office.

April 14 2007, have the election. By all accounts, it didn't go so well: it
was pretty much rigged.

**Step 2**: lose.

Either accept what had happended

**Step 3**: don't give up.

**Step 4**: use technology.

Collected 120K ballots and scanned them. Adrian Forty, British fingerprint
expert. Found amazing consistencies in the finger prints: 84,814 were
duplicates. 460 were exactly the same.

The Church-Turing These and You
-------------------------------

Turing machine: universal, general.

Discrete physics vs. continuous physics.

Girlgeek dinners
----------------

Place for women who work in IT to meet other women in IT. Often they're the
only woman.

PacINET 2010
------------

