---
layout      : post
title       : Bringing GLSL to the masses
categories  : [lcs2011]
tags        : [graphics, opengl, compilers]
excerpt     : |
  Notes from the session explaining the Mesa support for OpenGL GLSL with a
  compiler and optimiser.
---

Eric Anholt, Intel Software and Services Group, *Bringing GLSL to the masses*.

It's easy: compiler techniques, little to no memory concerns, small
programmes.

It's hard: GPUs aren't CPUs, funny memory model.

Write masks so that you can operate on components of vectors. 

Optimisations want to know "where does this value come from?" Scalars come
from the last thing to write to it, write masks make this harder. It depends
on how your GPU is built.

- AOS mode is having one register with the whole vec4 in it.

  reg0: x0 y0 z0 x0
  reg1: x1 y1 z1 x1 

- SOA mode is having four registers for a vec4.

  reg0: x0 y1 z2 x3
  reg1: y0 y1 y2 y3

GPUs don't do arbitrary flow control. 6 years ago didn't have any. GLSL
requires support for loops and ifs. Need to support for old hardware.

Don't have variables, but need temporaries with array indexes. Work around
hardware with registers and loops.

Limitations on instruction count. 915: 64 ALU, 32 text; r500: 1024
instructions.

Few registers (915: 16 temporary vec4 registers; r300 vertex: 32 temporary)
mean that register allocation is a big deal. Even if you can spill to memory,
it's often very slow.

Advantages: almost no guarantees about maths in OpenGL so they can optimise
and approximate (small order polynomials approximating `sin()`).

Mesa 7.8 to Mesa 7.10 improved performance in nexuiz 20%.

Most programmes generate good-looking code.

Still a lot of work to do in optimising some programmes. Still need native
codegen for other GPUs and the CPU (looking at using LLVM for this).

MesaIR, TGSI
