---
title   : 
excerpt : |
  Explicitly programming language using basic features in most programming
  languages.
---

Next Generation Forecast and Warning System at BOM. Part of it is the
automatic generation of text forecasts.

Strings are great for presenting canned information, but if your output needs
to context sensitive then you might need natural language generation (turning
non-textual information into output text). Getting into strings too early can
make manipulation difficult, so you need an intermediate representation.

Graphical forecasting system used to prepare forecasts. Data grids
(temperature, wind, pressure, probability of precipitation) generated by
numerical prediction methods. Forecasters manipulate the grids and push a
button and it spits out the forecast text.

Observations and models used to generate the grids, turned into stats,
simplified, turned into words and spat out as text.

"Weather" has a meaning, it's not just temperature..

COV:TYPE:INTENSITY:ATTRIBUTES

Sct:TS:!!:[h,FF]

Scale of coverage: chance, isolated/patchy, scattered/areas, wide.

Types:

- 6 coverage - 15 types - 9 intensity - 9 attributes (each wx key has 0 or
more.)

Inherited graphical system from US, but it was less nuanced.

Each phrasal component has a list mapping tuple patterns to strings which are
glued and ordered by another pattern match list. 

There are a *whole* bunch of language restrictions and special cases
(adjective ordering).

Also meteorological concerns: forecasters need precipitation together, frost
and fog together, etc. Could be considered semantic restrictions stemming.

Trends
------

`Isol:SH:m:[] -> Isol:SH:+:[]` "Isolated showers, becoming heave by early
evening."

Old model: `[COV INTEN TYP ATTRS]` with lots of exceptions.

Rather than model all of English, using a restricted grammatical model:

NP ::= ADJP N PP

Process
-------

1. Input goal
2. Text planning (simplification)
3. Message specification
4. Linguistic realisation
5. Output text


Forecast English
----------------

Exploit the rules of English, but not too much. Avoid recursion. Define
"Forecast English" which focusses on noun phrases, potentially ungrammatical
in "Standard English". For example, "Rain." is a perfectly valid forecast.

Invented POS: Conjoined Noun Phrase, special prepositions to enforce
orderings.

`ConjoinedNounPhrase := Connector [NounPhrase] Word`

Conjoining Wx with similar types, account for adjectives already used "patchy
fog and frost".

Preposition phrase attachment problem. "Showers in the morning with hail"
versus "showers with hail in the morning". Semantics is ambiguous ("with hail"
modified )

Using preposition phrases to limit areas of effect. "Showers in X with hail in
Y".



Conclusion
----------

Took 3 - 5 weeks to write new words system. Integration into existing system
and making rules more explicit 5-8 weeks.

Worth doing if your output is more context sensitive.

CAWCR Research Letters, Issue 2, July 2009.

Questions
---------

10% of precis get modified up to 50% of coastal waters (doesn't do wind very
well).


