---
title       : Beyond init
categories  : [lca2011]
tags        : [init, system]
excerpt     : |
  Looking at systemd, a replacement and extension to the sysvinit 
  process.
---

> systemd is a system and session manager for Linux, compatible with
> sysv and lsb init script, providers agressive parallelisation
> capability, uses socket and D-BUS activation for starting services,
> offers on-demand starting of daemons, keeps track of processes
> using Linux cgroups, supports snapshotting and restoring of system
> state, maintains mount and automount points, implements an elaborate
> transactional dependency-based service control logic. It can work as a
> drop-in replacement of sysvinit.

Runs as process 1 `init(8)` and all the magic that entails.

Features
========

Parallelisation
---------------

Traditional sysv based systems start services one at a time: syslog > dbus >
avahi > bluetooth.

The limited parallelisation in Suse/Ubuntu starts: syslog > dbus > (avahi and
bluetooth). This is an improvement, but not that great.

In `systemd` they are all started at once. This can be done by looking at the
source of the dependencies: in this and many other cases, the problem is
sockets. Like Apple's `launchd` before it, `systemd` works around this
dependancy initialises the sockets itself and *then* starts the daemons, all
in one hit.

The kernel orders and buffers requests for us! Services will sleep when
buffers will up, automagically ordering things.

Bus-based activation
--------------------

More D-BUS daemons than socket daemons by default on Fedora.

File System Jobs
----------------

You can take a similar approach to mounting file systems. Use an automounter
that is replaced, later, with the real file system when they are used. A
`systemd` installation does this by default with things like `bin_fmt_misc`.
No more need to `modprobe` before configuring things in special file systems
from scripts.

Shell is evil
-------------

Intention is to get rid of the shell scripts involved in the boot sequence.

Try `echo $$`

Control Groups
--------------

Abstract the containers, etc., etc. Used in `systemd` to label processes (and
all their children). Having these labels allows you to really, truly, reliably
kill services and not just *some* of the processes, or killing everything with
the same name.


